All seven recommendations were accepted by management for implementation.

On March 30, 2023, the Office of Internal Audit issued the Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division. The audit report included seven recommendations. The Office of Internal Audit's commitment to monitoring and follow-up ensures that recommendations, particularly those deemed high or medium risk, are addressed effectively and lead to the desired outcomes.

The objectives of this follow-up audit were to determine if the recommended actions or an acceptable alternative were implemented as of June 30, 2025. The scope of the follow-up audit included the seven accepted recommendations that management reported as implemented. Note: the Homeless Impact Division was formerly a part of Social Services. The Office of Homeless Services, created since the initial audit, is now responsible for the recommendations. Recommendation B.1, on updating the policies and procedures manual to include all required Housing and Urban Development policies and procedures or document the reason for exclusion: the Coordinated Entry policies and procedures were updated. Status: Partially Implemented. Outstanding action: continue the update process for the Coordinated Entry policy and procedure manual to incorporate all required policies and procedures, with a revised implementation date of September 2, 2025. Recommendation B.1, on updating the policies and procedures manual to include all required Housing and Urban Development policies and procedures or document the reason for exclusion, was partially implemented. However, 5 of the 11 (45 percent) originally identified required policies and procedures remain exceptions.

The initial audit report encompassed governance and oversight of the Homelessness Planning Council, Homeless Management Information System usage, and internal controls over access to homelessness data between January 1, 2020, and December 31, 2021. To achieve the follow-up audit objectives, auditors interviewed management regarding implementation efforts, reviewed relevant SOC 2 Type 2 documentation, reviewed Homeless Management Information System users and end-user license agreements, reviewed Homelessness Planning Council and Executive Planning meeting minutes, reviewed newly established policies, procedures, and plans, evaluated internal controls currently in place, and considered risk of fraud, waste, and abuse and information technology risks. The follow-up audit objectives were achieved through a comprehensive approach.
