The heart of the debate hinges on a simple question: what constitutes "money remuneration" under the Railroad Retirement Tax Act? The "so you end the slippery slope" approach suggests a clear line must be drawn. I mean, this is a kind... Well, you're getting a stock option, which then needs to percolate for many years before it turns into a butterfly and becomes stock. You can get it as a stock option or in stock when that matures. This straightforward definition is a key point of reference. So the fact that you can't take a stock option to a grocery store is irrelevant to that question. Now who makes more money?

We'll hear argument first this morning in case 17530, Wisconsin Central versus the United States. Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court. We believe it is not for a simple reason. It essentially transfers currency. So why can't one read any form of monetary compensation to include any form of compensation readily convertible into cash? Is that correct? I mean, that's what that means. I think a medium of exchange... Instead of getting a check, you're getting stock. But you can take it in stock. You can take it in cash. You can get it in cash. Well, I think a generally accepted medium of exchange refers to something that, number one, has a fixed value. It's something that any citizen could use to obtain goods or services in an economy. I can obtain goods and services with cash. If my employer... Well, that's why, I mean, in your briefs, you keep on saying you can't take a stock option to a grocery store. Well, let me ask you another question, Mr. Dupree, just to test this a little bit. So let's say a company has two employees. And one employee makes $200,000 in cash and is granted $5 million in stock-based compensation, $200,000 plus $5 million.

U.S. savings bond? How common was it? I think you're quite right to say that the term we have to look at is money remuneration. I mean, we see this all over the place that companies give stock as well as cash in a compensation scheme, that it is a generally accepted medium of exchange for compensation. The question is that when it comes to compensation, is a stock option used interchangeably with money?
