The Battle of Borodino [ h ] or the Battle of Moscow [ i ] took place on the outskirts of Moscow near the village of Borodino on 7 September 1812, [ j ] during Napoleon's invasion of Russia . The Grande Armée fought against the Imperial Russian Army .

After the Russian retreat at the Battle of Smolensk , the road to Moscow lay open. Napoleon fought against General Mikhail Kutuzov , whom the Emperor Alexander I had appointed to replace Barclay de Tolly on 29 August after Smolensk was razed and captured by the French and Polish forces. Approximately a quarter of a million soldiers were involved in the battle, and it was the bloodiest single day of the Napoleonic Wars . In the battle, up to 50 French generals and marshals were killed or wounded, as well as 29 Russian generals; hence Sir Robert Wilson referred to it as the Battle of the Generals. [ 19 ]

After the Battle of Borodino, Napoleon remained on the battlefield with his army; the Imperial Russian forces retreated southwards. What followed was the French occupation of Moscow , while the retreating Russians resorted to scorched earth tactics to trap Napoleon and his men within their own largest city. [ 23 ] The main results of the battle were that Napoleon managed to take the Russian strong but unfinished defensive positions: the redoubt and the flèches , though he was unable to end the war as he hoped. In particular, Napoleon's reluctance to deploy his Imperial Guard , as he wished to negotiate with Alexander to make him re-join against the British, has been widely criticized by historians as a large blunder, as it allowed the Russian army to retreat into territory increasingly hostile to the French. [ 24 ]

Background

[ edit ]

Napoleon's invasion of Russia

[ edit ]

Main article: French invasion of Russia

Napoleon with the French Grande Armée began his invasion of Russia on 24 June 1812 by crossing the Niemen river. [ 25 ]
As his Russian army was outnumbered by far, Mikhail Bogdanovich Barclay de Tolly successfully used a "delaying operation", defined as an operation where a force under pressure trades space for time by slowing down the enemy's momentum and inflicting maximum damage on the enemy without, in principle, becoming decisively engaged, [ 26 ] using a Fabian strategy as a defence in depth by retreating further eastwards into Russia without giving battle. [ 27 ]

After the Battle of Smolensk , the Tsar replaced the unpopular Barclay de Tolly with Mikhail Kutuzov , who on 18 August took over the army at Tsaryovo-Zaymishche and ordered his soldiers to prepare for battle. [ 28 ] Kutuzov understood Barclay's decision to retreat was correct, but the Tsar, the Russian troops and Russia could not accept further retreat. A battle had to occur in order to preserve the morale of the soldiers and the nation. He then ordered not another retreat, but a search for a battleground eastwards at Gzhatsk on 30 August, thus using Barclay's delaying operation again, by which time the ratio of French to Russian forces had shrunk from 3:1 to 5:4. [ 29 ] The main part of Napoleon's army had entered Russia with 286,000 soldiers, [ 30 ] but by the time of the battle was reduced mostly through starvation and disease. [ 23 ]

Napoleon I on the Borodino Heights , by Vasily Vereshchagin (1897)

Kutuzov's army established a defensive line near the village of Borodino . [ 31 ] Although the Borodino field was too open and had too few natural obstacles to protect the Russian center and the left flank, it was chosen because it blocked both Smolensk–Moscow roads and because there were simply no better locations. [ 32 ] Starting on 3 September, Kutuzov strengthened the line with earthworks, including the Raevsky redoubt (named after Nikolay Raevsky who was in charge of its defence [ 33 ] ) in the center-right of the line, and three open, arrow-shaped " Bagration flèches " (named after Pyotr Bagration ) on the left. [ 34 ]

Battle of Shevardino

[ edit ]

Main article: Battle of Shevardino

The initial Russian position, which stretched south of the new Smolensk Highway (Napoleon's expected route of advance), was anchored on its left by a pentagonal earthwork redoubt erected on a mound near the village of Shevardino. [ 35 ] The Russian generals soon realized their left wing was overly exposed and vulnerable, [ 36 ] [ page needed ] so the Russian line was moved back from this position, but the redoubt remained manned, with Kutuzov stating the fortification was manned simply to delay the advance of the French forces. Historian Dmitry Buturlin reports it was used as an observation point to determine the course of the French advance. Historians Witner and Ratch, and many others, reported it was used as a fortification to threaten the French right flank, despite being beyond the effective reach of guns of the period. [ 35 ]

The Chief of Staff of the Russian 1st Army , Aleksey Yermolov , said the Russian left was shifting positions when the French Army arrived sooner than expected; thus, the Battle of Shevardino became a delaying effort to shield the redeployment of the Russian left. The construction of the redoubt and its purpose is disputed by historians to this day. [ 35 ]

The conflict began on September 5 when Marshal Joachim Murat 's French forces met Pyotr Konovnitsyn 's Russians in a massive cavalry clash, the Russians eventually retreating to the Kolorzkoi Cloister when their flank was threatened. Combat resumed the next day but Konovnitsyn again retreated when Viceroy Eugène de Beauharnais ' Fourth Corps arrived, threatening his flank. The Russians withdrew to the Shevardino Redoubt, where a pitched battle ensued. Murat led Nansouty 's First Cavalry Corps and Montbrun 's Second Cavalry Corps, supported by Compans 's Division of Davout 's First Infantry Corps against the redoubt. Simultaneously, Prince Józef Poniatowski 's Polish infantry attacked the position from the south. The fighting was heavy and very fierce, as the Russians refused to retreat until Kutuzov personally ordered them to do so. [ 36 ] [ page needed ] The French captured the redoubt at the cost of 4,000–5,000 French and 6,000 Russian casualties. [ 37 ] The small redoubt was destroyed and covered by the dead and dying of both sides. [ 38 ]

The unexpected French advance from the west and the fall of the Shevardino redoubt threw the Russian formation into disarray. Since the left flank of their defensive position had collapsed, Russian forces withdrew to the east, constructing a makeshift position centered around the village of Utitsa. The left flank of the Russian position was thus ripe for a flanking attack. [ 39 ]

Opposing forces

[ edit ]

See also: Estimates of opposing forces in the Battle of Borodino and Russian Army order of battle (1812)

Russian forces

[ edit ]

Battle of Borodino by Peter von Hess , 1843. In the center it shows Bagration after being wounded.

A series of reforms to the Russian army had begun in 1802, creating regiments of three battalions , each battalion having four companies . The defeats of Austerlitz , Eylau and Friedland led to important additional reforms, though continuous fighting in the course of three wars with France, two with Sweden and two with the Ottoman Empire had not allowed time for these to be fully implemented and absorbed. [ 40 ] A divisional system was introduced in 1806, and corps were established in 1812. [ 40 ] Prussian influence may be seen in the organizational setup. By the time of Borodino the Russian army had changed greatly from the force which met the French in 1805–1807.

Russian forces present at the battle included 180 infantry battalions, 164 cavalry squadrons , 20 Cossack regiments and 55 artillery batteries (637 artillery pieces). In total, the Russians fielded 155,200 troops. [ 3 ] There were 10,000 Cossacks and 33,000 Russian militiamen in the area who did not participate in the battle; for a total of 43,000 irregulars . After the battle the militia units were broken up to provide reinforcements for depleted regular infantry battalions. Of the 637 Russian artillery pieces, 300 were held in reserve and many of these were never committed to the battle. [ 5 ]

French forces

[ edit ]

According to historian Alexander Mikaberidze , the French army remained the finest army of its day by a good margin. [ 41 ] The vast French military resources in manpower, horsepower, and firepower along with fusion of the Ancien Régime 's legacy with the formations of the French revolution and Napoleon's reforms transformed it into a military machine that had dominated Europe by 1799. Each corps of the French army was in fact its own mini-army capable of independent action. [ 41 ] Despite being the finest army of its day in 1812, [ citation needed ] the French military was in decline since the Battle of Austerlitz due to spending military resources in the Peninsular War , and losing many French veterans in battles like Eylau , Aspern , and Wagram .

French forces included 214 batta