Continuum hypothesis
Proposition in mathematical logic

In mathematics, specifically set theory, the continuum hypothesis (abbreviated CH) is a hypothesis about the possible sizes of infinite sets. It states:

There is no set whose cardinality is strictly between that of the integers and the real numbers.

The name of the hypothesis comes from the term continuum for the real numbers. In Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory with the axiom of choice (ZFC), this is equivalent to the following equation in aleph numbers: 2^aleph_0 = aleph_1, or even shorter with beth numbers: beth_1 = aleph_1.

The continuum hypothesis was advanced by Georg Cantor in 1878. It became one of the most studied problems in set theory, and establishing its truth or falsehood was the first of Hilbert's 23 problems presented in 1900. The answer to this problem is independent of ZFC. This means the axioms of ZFC can neither prove nor disprove the continuum hypothesis, meaning either the continuum hypothesis or its negation can be added as an axiom to ZFC set theory, with the resulting theory being consistent if and only if ZFC is consistent. This independence was proved in 1963 by Paul Cohen, complementing earlier work by Kurt Gödel in 1940.

History

The continuum hypothesis was first introduced by Georg Cantor in his 1878 paper "Ein Beitrag zur Mannigfaltigkeitslehre", in a form now called the weak continuum hypothesis which is equivalent to the standard formulation under the then-undeveloped axiom of choice. Cantor initially presented the weak continuum hypothesis as a theorem, but did not give a proof and later became uncertain of it. On 25 October 1882, Cantor wrote to his correspondent Gösta Mittag-Leffler, and formulated the continuum hypothesis (CH) in its modern form and gave his belief he could prove it. By the 1890s, many mathematicians in Germany and France were aware of the problem. Cantor tried for many years to prove CH but never succeeded.

It became the first on David Hilbert's list of important open questions that was presented at the International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM) in the year 1900 in Paris. At that point, axiomatic set theory was not yet formulated.

Many erroneous proofs and disproofs of CH were given. As early as 1884, Paul Tannery claimed to prove CH, but the proof was erroneous. In 1890, Beppo Levi claimed to have a proof from assuming that every subset of the real numbers has the Baire property, but no proof was ever published. At the 1904 ICM in Heidelberg, Gyula Kőnig announced he had disproven CH, drawing wide attention, but a flaw in the proof was found the next day. Felix Bernstein also published an attempted proof of CH in 1904, but it was wrong and attracted little response. In 1926, Hilbert claimed to have solved the continuum hypothesis and gave a proof sketch, but this was also incorrect.

Kurt Gödel proved in 1940 that the negation of the continuum hypothesis, i.e., the existence of a set with intermediate cardinality, could not be proved in standard set theory. The second half of the independence of the continuum hypothesis – i.e., unprovability of the nonexistence of an intermediate-sized set – was proved in 1963 by Paul Cohen.

Cardinality of infinite sets

Two sets are said to have the same cardinality or cardinal number if there exists a bijection between them. With infinite sets such as the set of integers or rational numbers, the existence of a bijection between two sets becomes more difficult to demonstrate. The rational numbers Q seemingly form a counterexample to the continuum hypothesis: the integers form a proper subset of the rationals, which themselves form a proper subset of the reals, so intuitively, there are more rational numbers than integers and more real numbers than rational numbers. However, this intuitive analysis is flawed since it does not take into account the fact that all three sets are infinite. Perhaps more importantly, it in fact conflates the concept of "size" of the set Q with the order or topological structure placed on it. In fact, it turns out the rational numbers can actually be placed in one-to-one correspondence with the integers, and therefore the set of rational numbers is the same size (cardinality) as the set of integers: they are both countable sets.

In simple terms, the Continuum Hypothesis (CH) states that the set of real numbers has minimal possible cardinality which is greater than the cardinality of the set of integers. That is, every infinite set S of real numbers can either be mapped one-to-one into the integers or the real numbers can be mapped one-to-one into S.

Independence from ZFC

The independence of the continuum hypothesis (CH) from Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory (ZF) follows from combined work of Kurt Gödel and Paul Cohen.

Gödel showed that CH cannot be disproved from ZF, even if the axiom of choice (AC) is adopted, i.e. from ZFC. Gödel's proof shows that both CH and AC hold in the constructible universe L, an inner model of ZF set theory, assuming only the axioms of ZF. The existence of an inner model of ZF in which additional axioms hold shows that the additional axioms are relatively consistent with ZF, provided ZF itself is consistent. The latter condition cannot be proved in ZF itself, due to Gödel's incompleteness theorems, but is widely believed to be true and can be proved in stronger set theories.

Cohen showed that CH cannot be proven from the ZFC axioms, completing the overall independence proof. To prove his result, Cohen developed the method of forcing, which has become a standard tool in set theory. Cohen was awarded the Fields Medal in 1966 for his proof.

Cohen's independence proof shows that CH is independent of ZFC. Further research has shown that CH is independent of all known large cardinal axioms in the context of ZFC. Moreover, it has been shown that the cardinality of the continuum can be any cardinal consistent with Kőnig's theorem. A result of Solovay shows that in any model of ZFC, if kappa is a cardinal of uncountable cofinality, then there is a forcing extension in which 2^aleph_0 = kappa. However, per Kőnig's theorem, it is not consistent to assume 2^aleph_0 is aleph_omega or any cardinal with cofinality omega.

Arguments for and against the continuum hypothesis

Gödel believed that CH is false, and that his proof that CH is consistent with ZFC only shows that the Zermelo–Fraenkel axioms do not adequately characterize the universe of sets. Gödel was a Platonist and therefore had no problems with asserting the truth and falsehood of statements independent of their provability. Cohen, though a formalist, also tended towards rejecting CH.

Historically, mathematicians who favored a "rich" and "large" universe of sets were against CH, while those favoring a "neat" and "controllable" universe favored CH. More recently, Matthew Foreman has pointed out that ontological maximalism can actually be used to argue in favor of CH, because among models that have the same reals, models with "more" sets of reals have a better chance of satisfying CH.

Another viewpoint is that the conception of set is not specific enough to determine whether CH is true or false. This viewpoint was advanced as early as 1923 by Skolem. Skolem argued on the basis of what is now known as Skolem's paradox, and it was later supported by the independence of CH from the axioms of ZFC.

At least two other axioms have been proposed that have implications for the continuum hypothesis, although these axioms have not currently found wide acceptance in the mathematical community. In 1986, Chris Freiling presented an argument against CH by showing that the negation of CH is equivalent to Freiling's axiom of symmetry. Freiling believes this axiom is "intuitively clear" but others have disagreed.

A difficult argument against CH developed by W. Hugh Woodin has attracted considerable attention since the year 2000. Woodin proposed a new hypothesis that he labeled the Star axiom. The Star axiom would imply that 2^aleph_0 is aleph_2, thus falsifying CH. However, Woodin stated in the 2010s that he now instead believes CH to be true, based on his belief in his new "ultimate L" conjecture.

Solomon Feferman argued that CH is not a definite mathematical problem. He proposed a theory of "definiteness" and conjectured that CH is not definite according to this notion, and proposed that CH should, therefore, be considered not to have a truth value. Peter Koellner wrote a critical commentary on Feferman's article.

Joel David Hamkins proposes a multiverse approach to set theory and argues that "the continuum hypothesis is settled on the multiverse view". In a related vein, Saharon Shelah wrote that he does "not agree with the pure Platonic view that the interesting problems in set theory can be decided, that we just have to discover the additional axiom".

Generalized continuum hypothesis

The generalized continuum hypothesis (GCH) states that if an infinite set's cardinality lies between that of an infinite set S and that of the power set P(S) of S, then it has the same cardinality as either S or P(S). GCH is equivalent to: aleph_(alpha+1) = 2^aleph_alpha for every ordinal alpha.

The beth numbers provide an alternative notation for this condition: aleph_alpha = beth_alpha for every ordinal alpha. The continuum hypothesis is the special case for the ordinal alpha = 1.

Like CH, GCH is also independent of ZFC, but Sierpiński proved that ZF + GCH implies the axiom of choice (AC), so choice and GCH are not independent in ZF; there are no models of ZF in which GCH holds and AC fails.

Kurt Gödel showed that GCH is a consequence of ZF + V=L, and is therefore consistent with ZFC. As GCH implies CH, Cohen's model in which CH fails is a model in which GCH fails, and thus GCH is not provable from ZFC. W. B. Easton used the method of forcing developed by Cohen to prove Easton's theorem, which shows it is consistent with ZFC for arbitrarily large cardinals to fail to satisfy 2^aleph_alpha = aleph_(alpha+1).

For any infinite sets A and B, if there is an injection from A to B then there is an injection from subsets of A to subsets of B. Thus for any infinite cardinals A and B, A < B implies 2^A <= 2^B. If A and B are finite, the stronger inequality A < B implies 2^A < 2^B holds. GCH implies that this strict, stronger inequality holds for infinite cardinals as well as finite cardinals.
