117 captures

08 Aug 2009 - 30 Aug 2026

Jan
FEB
Mar

24

2020
2021
2022

success

fail

About this capture

COLLECTED BY

Organization: Archive Team

Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history.

History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations.

The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs.

This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine , providing a path back to lost websites and work.

Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find.

The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.

Collection: Archive Team: URLs

TIMESTAMPS

The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20210224061550/https://www.nytimes.com/1999/07/12/opinion/essay-disaster-never-came.html

Opinion | Essay; Disaster Never Came

-

-

-

-

-

-

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

See the article in its original context from July 12, 1999 , Section A , Page 15 Buy Reprints

View on timesmachine

TimesMachine is an exclusive benefit for home delivery and digital subscribers.

''Fate has ordained,'' a saddened President was prepared to say, ''that the men who went to the moon to explore in peace will stay to rest in peace.''

That was the opening line of a speech to the nation that I drafted for Richard Nixon 30 years ago this week, as Apollo XI was about to land on the moon.

NASA's liaison with the White House, the astronaut Frank Borman, had called me to say ''You want to be thinking of some alternative posture for the President in the event of mishaps.'' When that failed to register, he laid it out more plainly: ''Like what to do for the widows.''

The most dangerous part of the trip was not landing the little module on the moon, but in launching it back up to the mother ship. If that failed, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin could not be rescued. Mission Control would have to ''close down communications'' and, as the world agonized, let the doomed astronauts starve to death or commit suicide.

Nixon aides H. R. Haldeman and Peter Flanigan told me to plan for that tragic contingency. On July 18, 1969, I recommended that ''in event of moon disaster . . . the President should telephone each of the widows-to-be'' and after NASA cut off contact ''a clergyman should adopt the same procedure as a burial at sea, commending their souls to 'the deepest of the deep,' concluding with the Lord's Prayer.'' A draft Presidential speech was included.

I haven't thought about that macabre planning for three decades. Like most adults, I remembered the exhilarating ''MEN WALK ON MOON'' headline, the phone call of congratulations to ''Tranquillity base'' -- and that historic weekend's dark counterpoint at Chappaquiddick, which ended the dynastic potential of the brother of the President who launched the Apollo journey.

Last week, however, Jim Mann of The Los Angeles Times wrote a piece headed ''The Story of a Tragedy That Was Not to Be.'' He was digging through the National Archives last year, researching his book on China policy, ''About Face.'' He found our moon disaster contingency plan, and published it the week before the anniversary along with the never-needed speech draft.

''These brave men, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, know there is no hope for their recovery,'' the President would have had to say. ''But they also know that there is hope for mankind in their sacrifice. . . .

''In ancient days, men looked at stars and saw their heroes in the constellations. In modern times, we do much the same, but our heroes are epic men of flesh and blood.

''Others will follow, and surely find their way home. Man's search will not be denied. But these were the first, and will remain foremost in our hearts.

''For every human being who looks up at the moon in the nights to come will know that there is some corner of another world that is forever mankind.''

For 17 years afterward, we took space triumph for granted. Terrible risks were largely ignored -- until the Challenger spacecraft blew up for all to see in classrooms and living rooms.

No disaster speech was on hand for President Reagan to deliver in the stunned aftermath. His writer, Peggy Noonan, rose to the occasion with a moving address written at white heat, concluding with the words of the sonnet by James Gillespie Magee in farewell to the courageous crew who ''slipped the surly bonds of earth to touch the face of God.''

Time and chance happeneth to us all. Armstrong and Aldrin are alive and well; the third man to walk the moon, Pete Conrad, was killed last week when, like Lawrence of Arabia, he ran his motorcycle into a ditch. But the point is not the quirkiness of Fate: our charge today is to value the goal of discovery that drives questing humans to take great risks.

A personal note. At historic moments, speechwriters turn to poets. The final line of the undelivered salute evoked the cadence of the patriotic poet Rupert Brooke, who died in the Royal Navy in World War I:

If I should die, think only this of me:

That there's some corner of a foreign field

That is forever England.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story