Skip to main content

Join

- Join our community

JOIN NOW

5
Premium benefits

24/7
Access available

23K+
Active Members

Expert insights

In-depth guides and features

Curated newsletters

Handpicked inspiration

Early Access

Preview new releases first

Achievements

Earn badges as you explore

Join the conversation

Comment and connect

Tailored for you

Personalised recommendations

Get Space+ Access Quick

For the quickest way to join, enter your email below. We’ll send a confirmation email and sign you up to Space.com newsletters with the latest inspiration, expert advice and exclusive offers.

By submitting your information you agree to the
Terms & Conditions
and
Privacy Policy
and are aged 16 or over.

FIND OUT ABOUT OUR MAGAZINE

Want to subscribe to the magazine? Click the button below to
find out more information.

Find out more

Get Space+ Access Quick

Join The Club for quick access. Enter your email below and we'll send confirmation, and sign you up to our newsletter.

By submitting your information, you confirm you are aged 16 or over,
have read our
Privacy Policy
and agree to the
Terms & Conditions . Geographical rules apply.

Welcome

to
Space+
!

Hi
,

Your membership journey starts here.

Keep exploring and earning more as a member.

MY ACCOUNT

Earn your first
badge

Start reading to unlock your first badge

Keep earning badges

Explore ways to get more involved as a member.

Space Exploration

Latest space missions, discoveries and exploration updates.

Explore

Astronomy

Stargazing tips, cosmic events and expert insights on the universe

Explore

Your membership perks

Start exploring exclusive deals, expert advice and more

Explore now

Never Miss a Discovery

Space news, cosmic updates and expert insights straight to your inbox.

Choose your newsletters

Sign Out

Get the Space.com Newsletter

Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more!

By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.

You are now subscribed

Your newsletter sign-up was successful

Want to add more newsletters?

Join the club

Get full access to premium articles, exclusive features and a growing list of member rewards.

Explore

An account already exists for this email address, please log in.

Click for next article

Share

-

Copy link

-

Facebook

-

X

-

Whatsapp

-

Reddit

-

Pinterest

-

Flipboard

-

Email

Share this article

Join the conversation

Follow us

Add us as a preferred source on Google

Newsletter

Subscribe to our newsletter

YouTube

Watch On

Ready to relive the first landing mission on the moon , five decades ago? PBS and BBC Studios will bring viewers through Apollo 11's major milestones in the new film "8 Days: To the Moon and Back."

The movie premieres on PBS today (July 17) at 9 p.m. EDT, three days before the 50th anniversary of the moon landing on July 20. The film includes recently declassified mission audio recordings, new studio footage, a variety of NASA and news archives, and a recreation of the journey using computer-generated imagery.

"With access to previously classified and little-heard, rare audio recordings and using amazing re-enactment and special effects, '8 Days: To the Moon and Back' captures the story of Apollo 11 as it really happened," Bill Margol, PBS' senior director of programming and development, said in a statement.

Related: Apollo 11 at 50: A Complete Guide to the Historic Moon Landing

- Relive the Apollo 11 Moon Landing Mission in Real Time

- Apollo 11 Moon Landing Giveaway with Simulation Curriculum & Celestron!

- Reading Apollo 11: The Best New Books About the US Moon Landings

"From these unique audio recordings, we hear, and now can see, the Apollo 11 crew 's real fears and excitement from within the spacecraft, offering an intimate look into the breathtaking and awe-inspiring journey of the most important and celebrated mission ever flown," he said.

Actors participating in the reenactments include Rufus Wright ("Rogue One: A Star Wars Story") as commander Neil Armstrong, Jack Tarlton ("The Imitation Game") as lunar module pilot Buzz Aldrin, and Patrick Kennedy ("Mrs. Wilson" and "Downton Abbey") as command module pilot Michael Collins.

"For the first time, this film takes audiences inside the mission to experience the actual journey of those three astronauts in the most intimate and spectacular of fashions," Andrew Cohen, BBC Studios executive producer and head of science, said in the same statement. "This is the ultimate documentary of the moon shot; it's as if we've gone back 50 years and made the film we'd always dreamt of."

The new film is part of PBS' " Summer of Space " multiplatform experience, which includes programming on PBS stations, PBS.org and the PBS video app for mobile and other platforms.

- Catch These Events Celebrating Apollo 11 Moon Landing's 50th Anniversary

- NASA's Historic Apollo 11 Moon Landing in Pictures

- Reading Apollo 11: The Best New Books About the US Moon Landings

Follow Elizabeth Howell on Twitter @howellspace . Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom and on Facebook .

Elizabeth Howell

Contributing Writer

Elizabeth Howell (she/her), Ph.D., was a staff writer in the spaceflight channel between 2022 and 2024 specializing in Canadian space news. She was contributing writer for Space.com for 10 years from 2012 to 2024. Elizabeth's reporting includes multiple exclusives with the White House, leading world coverage about a lost-and-found space tomato on the International Space Station, witnessing five human spaceflight launches on two continents, flying parabolic, working inside a spacesuit, and participating in a simulated Mars mission. Her latest book, "Why Am I Taller?" (ECW Press, 2022) is co-written with astronaut Dave Williams.

Close

Please login or signup to comment

Please wait...

Login

Sign Up