SP-4223 "Before This Decade Is
Out..."

Chapter 9

Glynn S. LUNNEY

(1936- )

[ 202 ]

Apollo 7 MCC Activity-Flight Director
Glynn Lunney is seated at his console in the Mission Operations
Control Room in the Mission Control Center at Houston on the first
day of the Apollo 7 mission, October 11, 1968. (NASA Photo
S-68-49299.)

[ 203 ] Born in Old Forge,
Pennsylvania on November 27, 1936, Glynn S. Lunney grew up with a
fascination for flight. Focusing that interest while entering
college, Lunney recalled studying aeronautics because "I wanted to
work in the field of flight which meant aircraft since the field
known today as aerospace was virtually non-existent."

After obtaining a degree in aeronautical
engineering from the University of Detroit in 1958, Lunney began his
career with NASA upon entering the National Advisory Committee for
Aeronautic's (NACA) cooperative training program at the Lewis
Research Center in Cleveland, Ohio. There, he worked with a group
that used a B-57 bomber to launch small rockets high into the
atmosphere to make heat transfer measurements.

Lunney first became aware of the work being
done in manned space flight after viewing a preliminary drawing of
what later became the Mercury spacecraft. When NACA became the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 1958, Lunney worked
side by side with engineers at NASA's Langley Research Center, in the
area of manned space flight, as part of the newly formed Space Task
Group (STG) which he joined in September 1959 as an aeronautical
research engineer.

[ 204 ] One of Lunney's
first duties with the STG involved working in the Control Center
Simulation Group. Here he was responsible for the preparation and
operation of simulated missions used to train flight controllers in
the manned Mercury program.

After moving to Houston, Lunney began work at
the newly organized Manned Spacecraft Center (MSC), becoming head of
the Mission Logic and Computer Hardware Section of the Flight
Operations Division (FOD), where he was responsible for establishing
and coordinating the FOD flight dynamics requirements in the new
Mission Control Center (MCC). One of Lunney's key roles at Houston
was in helping establish the MCC mission rules for all flight
controllers and crews. The philosophy behind these rules is sound
enough that they remain in use at today's mission control
center.

Lunney continued taking on progressively
larger roles and responsibilities within NASA, including chief of the
Flight Dynamics Branch at the Flight Control Division. In 1968, he
became chief of the Flight Director's Office, a role he assumed
throughout most of the Apollo lunar program. While in this role,
Lunney's duties grew to supervise all other flight directors and
manage the training of flight control teams. From 1970 to 1972,
Lunney also acted as technical assistant for Apollo to the director
of Flight Operations.

Lunney became involved in NASA's first
cooperative space venture with the former Soviet Union. In 1972, he
became manager of the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project (ASTP) where he
oversaw the planning, coordination, and integration of all U.S.
technical and operational details, as well as the supervision and
coordination of the contracts and other elements supporting the
program. When Lunney was promoted to manager of the Apollo Spacecraft
Office in 1973, he continued with his ASTP responsibilities. Working
with the Soviet Union required a great deal of skill in diplomacy and
management; under Lunney's direction, the ASTP mission was launched
in 1975 and proved to be an international success.

During his long and distinguished career with
NASA, Lunney served in a variety of different positions. In 1975, he
became manager of the Shuttle Payload Integration and Development
Program. During this time, he also served two appointments at NASA
Headquarters: from 1976 to 1977 he served as deputy associate
administrator for Space [ 205 ] Flight and from
1979 to 1980 he became acting associate administrator for Space
Transportation Operations. From 1981 to 1985, Lunney returned to
Houston where he became manager of the National Space Transportation
System program where he oversaw all Shuttle vehicle systems
engineering, design, and integration.

In 1985, Lunney retired from NASA and began
work for Rockwell International. After the United Space Alliance
(USA) formed in 1995 as NASA's prime contractor for all Space Shuttle
operations, Lunney became vice president and program manager for USA
in Houston in support of NASA's Space Flight Operations
contract.

[ 206 ] Editor's note: The
following are edited excerpts from two separate interviews conducted
with Glynn S. Lunney. Interview #1 was conducted on February 8, 1999,
by Carol Butler and assisted by Summer Chick Bergen and Kevin Rusnak.
Interview #2 was conducted on February 26, 1999, by Summer Chick
Bergen and Kevin Rusnak. Both interviews were conducted as part of
the Johnson Space Center Oral History Project.

Interview #1

You mentioned. . . that one of the Saturn V
missions, in fact, the one right before Apollo 8, had experienced a
variety of difficulties.

Yes. Right.

When the decision was made for Apollo 8 and
you were going to use the Saturn V again, did you have any concerns
about it?

We did, but we talked about this pogo thing
that was causing one engine to shut down, and then the mixed wiring
caused another engine to shut down also, and there was a good fix for
the center engine just by shutting it down early. The engine testing
had gone well. Once we were getting to the point of saying we were
going to put people on board, to light the thing and fire it, we felt
that since we're taking all the risks, we might as well try to get
the best gain that we possibly can from it. You could have used the
Saturn V to do an Earth orbital flight, but the rocket was oversized
for that, and you wouldn't have obtained a full, complete test of it.
As a result, we began to adopt the attitude of going for the mission
that the rocket was designed for and take it out to the Moon, which
was done on Apollo 8. . . So once we got over the initial problems
that we had on 502 [Apollo 6], the unmanned flight, and saw that
those things were fixed, it became a matter of getting used to the
idea of going to the Moon.

And Apollo 8 was quite
successful.

Apollo 8 was great. . . Apollo 8 was kind of
like the door opener for the lunar landing mission. I think all the
people, certainly in [ 207 ] the operations
team-the flight crews, I think, didn't feel quite the same way, but
for us, all that had to be done to plan and execute the Apollo 8
mission says that we really knew how to do that. We kind of opened
the door so that the next couple of flights were test flights.
Getting to the lunar landing mission was shorter than it otherwise
would have been, but we got there with confidence as a result of
Apollo 8.

Looking at Apollo 8 and talking about the
risk with the rocket, in hindsight, after having seen Apollo 13,
there was some risk with the spacecraft to some degree. .
.

Oh, yes. There are a lot of-I'm not sure I
could recount them all, but there are a lot of times when things
happened that, had they happened in other sequences or under other
conditions, would have been really bad, but for the most part, the
things that happened were manageable, in the sequence we had them
in.

Apollo 13, for example, had it blown up while
the lunar module was on the lunar surface, we'd have been stranded
without a way to get home. So the fact that it blew up when it did
didn't leave us very much margin to get home, but at least it was
some margin, because we still had a full-up lunar module to live off
of. And had it happened 36 or whatever hours later, we'd have been
stuck. We'd have lost the mission, we'd have lost the crew, etc. So
there's a variety of things that happened where the sequence turned
out to be forgiving, if that's the right term, and the program was
able to continue without grinding to a halt.

We were lucky. . . if we hadn't gotten to the
Moon as quickly as we did and Apollo 13 happened somewhere in the
getting ready to go to the Moon stage, it probably would have
engendered another debate about, gee, maybe this is too risky and we
shouldn't be doing it at all, especially if we'd missed the goal of
doing it within the decade. It just would have had a different flavor
to the discussion than it did.

Apollo 13 happening after a couple of lunar
landing missions made people feel confident that, well, if we fix
this problem, we can go back and repeat what we were doing before.
All of that [ 208 ] wasn't still in
front of us. We already had that under our belt as two successful
lunar landing missions. If we did not have that, then the terms of
reference for the discussion would have been different.

You mentioned the buildup to the lunar
landing of Apollo 11. In between Apollo 8 and Apollo 11 were 9 and
10, both critical missions.

Both critical, and 9 was primarily-although,
of course, we flew the command service module-was primarily the first
manned test of the lunar module, and so people wanted to put the
lunar module through all the paces that they could in lower earth
orbit, and that's what the Apollo 9 mission was scheduled to do and
did. I didn't work on Apollo 9. I was around the Control Center, but
I didn't have a planned shift for Apollo 9 because, by that time, I
was occupied with Apollo 10. Apollo 10 was another step like that,
although it took the lunar module out of earth orbit and we took it
all the way to the Moon, and we did everything short of the actual
descent phase and the lunar surface phase.

So we had to do all the navigation things
having to do with the two vehicles in orbit. We separated them. We
approximated the rendezvous sequence that we would have when we
lifted off from the Moon. So we got through all of the phases of
flight except the actual descent itself, and then, of course, the
traverses that were planned for the surface work.

So we took the lunar module to earth orbit,
did everything we could with it, took it to the Moon, did everything
we could with it, and then, on the third flight, we were ready to
commit it to the landing and it worked fine. It worked fine in terms
of most of its performance. There were a few problems that people had
to work around in order to be sure that it got to landing.

Go into a little more detail with Apollo
10. . .

Apollo 10 was a great flight. I was the lead
flight director on it, and it was, you know, do everything except the
landing phase, is basically the way the mission design came down. A
number of us [ 209 ] argued at the time
that if we're going to go all that way and do all that, then we ought
to go land on the Moon. Probably the staunchest advocate of stopping
short of the descent phase was Chris Kraft at the time. He wanted us
to have the experience of navigating these two vehicles around the
Moon, navigating, knowing where they are and how fast they're going
so that you can get them back together. Because there were unknowns
associated with flying so close to the lunar surface, because the
trajectories would be disturbed by concentrations of mass from
whatever hit the Moon and it would change the orbit a little bit, and
that doesn't sound like much, but you can't afford to miss very much
when you're doing what we were doing.

So we debated that for a while, but after a
while we all got satis-fied that this was the right thing to do. So
we set about to do everything. Tom [Thomas P.] Stafford, Gene [Eugene
A.] Cernan, and John [W.] Young were on Apollo 10, and we had a
chance to do everything short of the landing on that flight. The
flight pretty much went by the book. There were a few funny anomalies
where the spacecraft got out of configuration at one time and was
kind of spinning up or going in a direction that the crew didn't
expect, and Cernan reacted to that, I think, profanely on the
air-to-ground, but that got settled down and got the configuration
right, and they got that fixed, and things went smoothly from then
on.

Basically, Apollo 10 was sort of like the last
clearance test for the Apollo 11 lunar landing try, and the flight
went well, everything behaved well, and basically the whole system,
hardware and people, passed the clearance test that we needed to pass
to be sure that we could go land on the Moon on the next one. Adding
the descent phase and the lunar surface work was a tremendous amount
of additional training, planning, and getting ready for that had to
occur with both the flight crews, with the people in the Control
Center, and, of course, all the people that plan all these
flights.

So in retrospect, Apollo 10 probably could
have landed on the Moon, but it was a matter of how much do you bite
off at a time, and the way it came out, Apollo 10 was absolutely the
right thing to do.

[ 210 ] Apollo 11 had been such a big event and was covered
extensively by the media, and then by the time of Apollo 13, there
was little coverage. . .

Yes, we could see that, because, of course, it
would show up in the numbers of people from the media who would come
here to follow the flights. It would take the form of the coverage
that would occur in the television, newspapers, or whatever. And we
had a sense that the coverage was dropping off, and a number of
people-people react to that in different ways. A number of people
felt like they were disappointed and it should always be the same as
it was, for example, for Apollo 11.

My attitude, I think, all along was there's
just something natural in this. I mean, people pay attention to
things when they believe that they should pay attention to them.
Certainly the first lunar landing mission was something in that
category. But then when you repeat it once and you're going back to
repeat it again and again-and I say repeat it. From the outside
that's what it looks like. From the inside you're doing a lot of
different things, but from the outside it looks like you're repeating
it, then the interest and the anxiety about it probably goes down a
little bit.

So, yes, we sensed and saw the decrease, the
indicators of decreased attention to the flights, and my reaction was
that's normal, that's human nature, and it wasn't anything to be
terribly distressed about, although some people were more stressed,
certainly, than I was about it. But I think it was unrealistic to
believe that the attention that the world focused on Apollo 11 was
going to continue to be focused on every subsequent flight. It just
isn't like that. So, while others might have been more upset, I was
sort of benign about it. I thought that was normal, and I didn't get
too upset about it.

Looking at the attention of the world and
the media, some people have mentioned before that they were so caught
up in the Apollo program or the other programs that they kind of lost
touch with what was going on in the outside world, like with Vietnam.
. .

Let me talk about that. Because the '60s were
such a tremendously...

[ 211 ]

Apollo 11 flight directors pose for a
group photo in the Mission Control Center. Pictured left to right,
and the shifts that they served during the mission, are (in front and
sitting) Clifford E. Charlesworth (Shift 1), Gerald D. Griffin (Shift
1), Eugene F. Kranz (Shift 2), Milton L. Windler (Shift 4), and Glynn
S. Lunney (Shift 3). (NASA Photo S-69-39192.)

...volatile and kind of a tearing apart
environment in the United States, and speaking for myself and, I
expect, for other people, we experienced all that, I mean, especially
Vietnam. So many young men were being killed and wounded. There was a
sense that you didn't have any idea of how long it was going to go
on, how bad it was going to continue to be, and so on. It was bad.
So, you know, as an American or even as a human being, I was affected
by all that and all the other things that were going on in America at
the time-civil rights, the assassination, marches, the hippie stuff,
the drug stuff started to come on the scene.

I remember the convention that was held in
Chicago in 1968 where there was so much mayhem, really, on the
streets of Chicago-tear gasses and the police hitting people to
control the crowds-and the people were expressing their point of
view, mostly about Vietnam, that we were on the wrong track and
[ 212 ] needed to get out of there. It was a very divisive,
terribly emotional kind of issue. That and other things, all those
other things were terribly emotional, and we still were in the middle
of the cold war. The threat from the Russians was real, and on and
on. So there was a lot of emotional things that were upsetting-that's
a mild word. I mean, "upsetting" is just too mild to capture it. It
was distressing the hell out of people in the country, and it had
that kind of effect on me.

The difference, though, that I felt for myself
and maybe for those of us in the program was that we had a real focus
on significant events in the '60s, and we could do something about
it. I think a lot of people were frustrated because, depending on
what their interest was or what their main concern was during the
'60s, most people couldn't do very much about it. I mean, people
protested, and that was, by the way, an activity that eventually had
its result, but it was a long time frame, and it was not clear that
it was going to have a positive outcome.

So a lot of people, I think, were frustrated
because there was nothing that they could personally do to make any
of these things that might have been distressing the hell out of them
come out okay. I mean, there they were, and events were out of their
control, and these things were happening. So there was a lot of
loss-of-control frustration, I think, that people had over the things
that were going on. And people felt it all to varying degrees, I
suppose, but I think most people in America felt it pretty strongly
at the time. All these things were occurring. It was a very difficult
environment, and it all caused people to be stressed and frustrated,
perhaps, at not being able to do anything about it.

At least in our case, and certainly speaking
for myself, I always had the sense that we were involved in a
significant activity of our time, significant for our country and for
our country's position in the world, and we were-kind of-stewards. I
was one of the stewards for this program to make it come out right.
So we could return to our little island or our little Camelot, or
whatever you want to call it, that we had here in the space program
and that we especially felt here at the Johnson Space Center, where
everybody in this thing worked so closely together. Of course, we
worked with [ 213 ] the other Centers,
too, but it was keenly felt here at the Johnson Space Center in terms
of the teamwork and the comradeship, and the reliance that you had to
have on other people. So there was a strong sense of community and
people working together and pulling in the same direction and so
on.

So the frustration that other people had,
perhaps, where they couldn't do anything about this inability to
control these events, we at least had a set of events that we had
some active control that we could apply to, even on a personal basis.
We could personally do our best to assure that our part of this
national scene was going to go well. I think it gave us a sense,
perhaps, of insulation from the emotional fallout from all these
other things that were going on, the frustration, the lack of
control, the stressing part of it. They were all real, but for me it
was a little different, I think, than for most of the population,
because we had this major '60s activity that we were involved in, and
we could actually go do something about it every day. We'd go to work
every day and work on it, and we could do something about it.

So in that sense, I think, we had an outlet
that most people probably didn't have to express their feelings and
their sense of what they thought ought to be done about conditions in
the country. We had this thing we could do, so it kept us together,
and it was a little bit like, when we did our thing, we were on a
little island and around us were all these terrible thunderstorms and
hurricanes and tornadoes and earthquakes, which were the events of
the time, both nationally and internationally, but they were kind of
violent, and you almost had the feeling that they were cataclysmic,
although it turned out that they weren't.

You got a sense that there was an impending
blowup of all these things going on, but we were on this little
island with all this going on around us, and yet we were able to
focus on the stuff that we had to do, and in that sense it gave us
something that we could control personally and something that we
could go do and contribute to, and we could do it every day.

So for us it was probably a rock that we could
hang onto, and it did mitigate, to some extent, at least for me
personally, the frustration in the sense of out-of-controlness that
most other people [ 214 ] must have been
suffering from. But it was very real. It was very real and very
painful. No matter what point of view anybody would represent on a
given subject, it had to be painful for everybody that was in
America-maybe not everybody, but everybody who wanted the country to
do well and come through this stuff. It was very painful for people.
It was very distressing. And they're mild words. I think what they
were feeling was a lot stronger than that, and there were many points
of view on almost every subject.

But we had our island and our rock that we
could go back to, that we could do something about. We felt like we
were making our contribution. We could contribute what the program
was going to contribute to the country. So it was like a solace of
sorts, or a port, or island in the storm that was going on all around
us.

So we were in a different condition, I think,
than other people in the country, and we benefited from that, I mean,
benefited from it in the sense that we had a focus and a way to
express ourselves that was constructive.

I think it did make a difference. I have
found in my research that after the Apollo 8 mission, a woman sent in
a telegram saying, "Thank you for saving 1968."

Yes. 1968 was a violent, difficult year. It
was the year of the Chicago thing. It was the year of the Tet
Offensive that started the year off. Assassinations. I mean, it was
awful stuff. The hippies and the drug thing was going on. Everybody
had a reaction to that, pro or con or otherwise. . . And then Apollo
8 ended the year with the Book of Genesis being read from the Moon.
It was quite a change. It was a very absolutely different kind of
public event than a lot of the previous ones, most of which had been
with hurt, pain, and agony wrapped around them. This was an entirely
different kind of thing, and we were part of it and felt like we were
continuing, and that we had more in front of us yet to do.

That's the other thing that happened to us.
Because of the pace of things, we never really had time to stop and
just enjoy it or even to reflect very much on it in a broad way or an
overall way. We never had time to sit around and talk about it. We
were always....

[ 215 ]

Glynn S. Lunney at console during the
Apollo 16 mission. Lunney later served as the project director for
the Apollo/Soyuz Test Project. (NASA. Photo S-71-16812.)

....so involved in a mission and then the next
one, and then the next one, that we did not have time to enjoy it,
perhaps, as much as we should have, although the enjoyment came from
the energy and the adrenaline that was pumping the whole time. But we
didn't have time to be very reflective about it, and that's really
come, for [ 216 ] me, in the last 5
to 10 years. It has been a revisiting of a lot of the events and a
lot of people, one thing and another, books and movies and coverage
and anniversaries, and so on.

I'm now grandfather to 12 little people. I
have a sense of what life's going to be for them and that, as a
member of the family, I participated in some way. I'm leaving
something for them to have some sense of what I had a chance to be a
part of.

Interview #2

As you were moving into the more
scientifically focused phases, Apollo was beginning to lose support,
or funding. Did that affect you at all at the time?

I guess I could answer that in a couple of
different ways. When I was doing this work in the '60s, I never
thought about what was going to come afterwards. I had this sense
that it was going to go on forever. It's probably a failing or an
idealism of youth, I guess, but you sort of think like, God, this is
wonderful stuff, and you think it's going to go on forever. .
.

On the other hand, this was set up, as you
said, as a response to what was considered to be a major threat, and
this was seen as a way to demonstrate capability and accomplishment
in this field, and we had done that. Within the program, it's
probably like any bureaucracy or any enterprise. Once you get to do
something, you think you'd like to do it several more times and
repeat it and so on. And as a matter of fact, at the time, there
wasn't an alternative that was sitting in front of us that says,
"Okay, now that we've done that, we're going to go do this." It took
a little while to develop what we were going to do next.

So there was a sense of inertia carrying the
missions along, and there was a sense in the program by a lot of
people that they wanted to continue and fly another one, another two,
another five, depending on, you know, whoever you talked to. Some
people just thought we ought to fly them indefinitely, I suppose. And
certainly that was a very strong opinion in the lunar science
community, [ 217 ] because, to them we
had just gotten over all this operational stuff and we were really
getting ready to be able to do the scientific things that they wanted
to do, and the 15 [Apollo 15] was the first mission that had an
extensive set of scientific capabilities after the initial
capabilities of 11, 12, and 14. And I'm sure they would want to have
continued it, and they would probably still be exploring the Moon
today.

But it was a response to a certain set of
circumstances. Once responded to, what we saw was acknowledgment,
explicit or otherwise, by both the political system in America and
probably by the public, that we had indeed achieved satisfaction of
the purpose, or that the response that we undertook satisfied what
caused it in the first place. I think the political system was
satisfied, and the public was satisfied that we had done that, and
that there was a sense that it was costing a considerable amount of
money. The percentage, for example, of the Federal budget that NASA
took in the peak years was like four percent. Today, and for long
periods of time, almost all the time, it's been one or less than one
percent of the Federal budget. So, four percent and one percent is a
big multiple. . . And there was a sense that, with everything else
that was going on in America, priorities needed changing, and that
was the political sound bite that became popular to describe the fact
that we needed to reorient and couldn't be spending this amount of
money or this high a percentage of our Federal budget for this kind
of thing. In light of the fact that it had accomplished its original
purpose, and the return, although seen as very valuable by the lunar
scientists, was not seen as so valuable to be worth that kind of
money by the political system. And I think that was probably,
although they might not have known exactly what the numbers were, the
sense that the public had at the time.

So I think it was natural that it served a
purpose, but there wasn't a lot of purpose to be served by just
continuing to do the same thing over and over again. And it was
disappointing to people, I think, but being realistic about it, I
think it was appropriate.

You know, other endeavors were different. For
example, the opening up of the New World. There clearly was, once
people got over here, a reason to come back. . .

[ 218 ] In the case of the
Apollo sequence, the reason to go back would have been the
satisfaction of scientific understanding, or the gaining of
scientific understanding about what's going on. That doesn't
have-didn't at the time and doesn't today-as high a priority as some
other things, like the motivations that were operative at the time of
the opening up of the New World. Not only was there trade, there was
competition with the other major European powers and so on. There was
a different set of circumstances. . . that's why it's difficult, I
think, to get another major new initiative in space started, beyond
the Space Station. It isn't obvious what the relevance and what the
rationale is for going ahead and doing that, especially since it's
very expensive. If it's a very expensive thing, it's hard to convince
people that we should go do that to satisfy our curiosity. It's not
much the curiosity of the American public, at least as I can read it
today, and I suppose they would say, "Yes, I'm curious about that,
and if it costs 10 bucks, go find out, but if it costs lots more than
that (which it would), then I don't know that I'm all that curious
about it today. I'll wait another day. And maybe you can do it
cheaper in the future. Technology changes and things will change and
so on and so on, so what's the hurry. I can do that later."

And I think that's the kind of valley that the
space program is in right now in terms of the surrounding environment
in the country. There's no urgency to go do something, and there's
nothing very specific or tangible that we can articulate that there's
a reason for going to do that. If, for example, we could solve all
the pollution problems of energy and do it on the Moon or some other
place and microwave it back to the Earth, well, that might have some
interest, if we could do it at a price that was competitive or
effective.

I think it's difficult to sell exploration for
exploration's sake when it has a real, real high price tag on it, and
that's the difficulty that the space program is going to face in
trying to chart a course beyond the Space Station. It's not clear yet
what that rationale and relevancy is going to be, but I think we need
to struggle to find it, so that we can continue. In the big scheme of
things, man has moved, and he's probably going to continue to move,
and it will take a while.

On the other hand, the exploration of the New
World took a while. I mean, it went on for decades/centuries, so, you
know, this [ 219 ] will, too, and it
will have periods when it's fast and periods when it's not so fast,
and periods when it's searching for what we are going to do next, and
what we are going to do next is probably going to be an agenda for
NASA. It is today, to some extent, but it will become more of an
agenda as the Space Station program begins to mature.

Is there anything today that we've talked
about that you wanted to close off points on?

Let's see. I will probably say this a couple
of different ways, a couple of different times, but when I look back
on it, I mean, I think we would all say the same thing in slightly
different words. We loved what we were able to do. We loved the
opportunity to be able to do it. We loved the-I don't want to
dramatize this about the challenge of it-but we loved the newness and
uniqueness of it, and the fact that we were able to participate in
it. I loved the privilege of being in the role that I was.

When I go back and talk about what happened in
space, I find that, gee, I was kind of in a spot doing something on
almost all of the significant events that ever happened in the human
space program in the country, one way or another. I didn't get to do
them all, but I got to do a lot of them. And you know, it was done
by-not only what we did, but the whole program-people all over
America. They weren't necessarily the best and the brightest at
anything, they were just pretty good and dedicated.

What took it to another level was dedication
to doing it very well, and you took a set of people that I guess
you'd have to say were average, and they were dedicated to doing
something that was really, in its sum, far above average. We were all
successful at pulling it off, and I think we all carry a sense that
we were involved in something that was much bigger than each of us as
individuals. What we ended up doing in Apollo was a lot bigger than
the sum of all of us and I think we all articulate it differently
perhaps, but we all carry a sense of that kind of a watershed event
in history, and in the development of civilization and the race as we
knew it.

[ 220 ] It remains to be
seen what forms this new frontier is going to take in the future, but
I think all of us who participated would have confidence and faith
that, yes, indeed, we have opened up an entirely new thing that was
not a window, perhaps, a dimension that was not available before. And
I don't know exactly what the form of exploring and exploiting that
window will be in the future, but it will be there and it will be
significant for all of us here on the planet.

We loved it. We loved the work, we loved the
comradeship, we loved the competition, we loved the sense of doing
something that was important to our fellow Americans. We were
obsessed with it. But it took a lot of average people and a few
extraordinary leaders, and we managed to do big things. Maybe that's
a lesson to take away from this history. You really can do
significant things and accomplish extraordinary things just by the
proper energy and structuring of what you want to do, but it has to
be meaningful and relevant to people. I think that was part of what
was so right about Apollo, articulated, of course, at the beginning
by John F. Kennedy. But it was something the American public seemed
to need the most during that period in terms of a response and
reassurance about America's role in the emerging frontier of space.
So I think we have to be sure that we have that kind of component,
and not a purely self-serving interest, in our rationales and
attempts to justify new exploration initiatives.