Skip to main content

Join

- Join our community

JOIN NOW

5
Premium benefits

24/7
Access available

23K+
Active Members

Expert insights

In-depth guides and features

Curated newsletters

Handpicked inspiration

Early Access

Preview new releases first

Achievements

Earn badges as you explore

Join the conversation

Comment and connect

Tailored for you

Personalised recommendations

Get Space+ Access Quick

For the quickest way to join, enter your email below. We’ll send a confirmation email and sign you up to Space.com newsletters with the latest inspiration, expert advice and exclusive offers.

By submitting your information you agree to the
Terms & Conditions
and
Privacy Policy
and are aged 16 or over.

FIND OUT ABOUT OUR MAGAZINE

Want to subscribe to the magazine? Click the button below to
find out more information.

Find out more

Get Space+ Access Quick

Join The Club for quick access. Enter your email below and we'll send confirmation, and sign you up to our newsletter.

By submitting your information, you confirm you are aged 16 or over,
have read our
Privacy Policy
and agree to the
Terms & Conditions . Geographical rules apply.

Welcome

to
Space+
!

Hi
,

Your membership journey starts here.

Keep exploring and earning more as a member.

MY ACCOUNT

Earn your first
badge

Start reading to unlock your first badge

Keep earning badges

Explore ways to get more involved as a member.

Space Exploration

Latest space missions, discoveries and exploration updates.

Explore

Astronomy

Stargazing tips, cosmic events and expert insights on the universe

Explore

Your membership perks

Start exploring exclusive deals, expert advice and more

Explore now

Never Miss a Discovery

Space news, cosmic updates and expert insights straight to your inbox.

Choose your newsletters

Sign Out

Get the Space.com Newsletter

Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more!

By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.

You are now subscribed

Your newsletter sign-up was successful

Want to add more newsletters?

Join the club

Get full access to premium articles, exclusive features and a growing list of member rewards.

Explore

An account already exists for this email address, please log in.

NASA Administrator Michael Griffin presented the NASA Ambassadors of Exploration award to Neil Armstrong (pictured). Armstrong received the award that includes a moon rock to recognize the sacrifices and dedication of the astronauts and others who were part of the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo programs. A former naval aviator, NASA test pilot and Apollo 11 commander, Armstrong was the first human to ever land a spacecraft on the moon and the first to step on the lunar surface. Armstrong's award will be displayed at the Cincinnati Museum Center at Union Terminal. Image
(Image credit: NASA/Bill Ingalls)

Share

-

Copy link

-

Facebook

-

X

-

Whatsapp

-

Reddit

-

Pinterest

-

Flipboard

-

Email

Share this article

Join the conversation

Follow us

Add us as a preferred source on Google

Newsletter

Subscribe to our newsletter

Apollo 11 astronaut Neil Armstrong may be notoriously private, but the first man on the moon recently reached out to a reporter to share some new details about his famous moonwalk with fellow astronaut Buzz Aldrin in 1969.

It all started with a blog post that was published Tuesday (Dec. 7) on the National Public Radio (NPR) website. The post examined Armstrong and Aldrin's celebrated first moonwalk on July 20, 1969, and questioned why the first exploration of the lunar surface covered such a small distance.

Robert Krulwich of NPR looked at a map from NASA that marks all the locations on the moon's surface visited by Armstrong and Aldrin. He then superimposed that map onto a regulation soccer field and baseball diamond.

Latest Videos From Space
View more

Watch full video here:

In doing so, Krulwich determined that the historic moonwalk took the astronauts less than a hundred yards away from their lunar lander. Or, from the perspective of a baseball field, "Armstrong's longest, boldest walk took him about as far as Joe DiMaggio used to jog every inning - from home plate to about mid-center field."

The next day, Krulwich posted a follow-up , which featured an e-mail response from Neil Armstrong himself.

In his reply, Armstrong, who was commander of the Apollo 11 flight, explained the main reasons for traversing such a small distance, which include the extremely high temperatures on the lunar surface, uncertainties surrounding how the astronauts' spacesuits with their water-cooled interiors would hold up, and requirements from NASA that the two astronauts perform experiments in front of a fixed camera.

"We did not have any data to tell us how long the small water tank in our backpacks would suffice," Armstrong wrote. "NASA officials limited our surface working time to 2 and 3/4 hours on that first surface exploration to assure that we would not expire of hyperthermia. After returning to and repressurizing the Lunar Module, we were able to drain and measure the remaining water in the backpacks to confirm the predicted."

Armstrong went on to say that, had there been more free time, he and Aldrin would have liked to explore more of the lunar surface.

"It is true that we would have liked to stay on the surface longer and traveled further away from the Lunar Module and the television camera," he wrote. "But we had a number of experiments to install, samples to document and collect, and photographs to take. The time available was fully allocated and we were working diligently to complete our assigned tasks."

Armstrong goes on to say that later Apollo flights were able to cover more ground thanks to the addition of lunar rovers, but that there is still a vast world left to discover.

"Americans have visited and examined 6 locations on Luna, varying in size from a suburban lot to a small township," Armstrong said. "That leaves more than 14 million square miles yet to explore."

- Apollo11 in Photos: The First Manned Moon Landing

- MostMemorable NASA Missions

- SuitSuite: Cosmic Apparel over the Years

Space.com Staff

News and editorial team

Space.com is the premier source of space exploration, innovation and astronomy news, chronicling (and celebrating) humanity's ongoing expansion across the final frontier. Originally founded in 1999, Space.com is, and always has been, the passion of writers and editors who are space fans and also trained journalists. Our current news team consists of Editor-in-Chief Tariq Malik; Editor Hanneke Weitering, Senior Space Writer Mike Wall; Senior Writer Meghan Bartels; Senior Writer Chelsea Gohd, Senior Writer Tereza Pultarova and Staff Writer Alexander Cox, focusing on e-commerce. Senior Producer Steve Spaleta oversees our space videos, with Diana Whitcroft as our Social Media Editor.

Close

Please login or signup to comment

Please wait...

Login

Sign Up