67 captures

14 Aug 2015 - 30 Aug 2026

Dec
JAN
Feb

15

2020
2021
2022

success

fail

About this capture

COLLECTED BY

Organization: Archive Team

Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history.

History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations.

The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs.

This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine , providing a path back to lost websites and work.

Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find.

The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.

Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler

ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites).

To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently.

There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com .

ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot .

TIMESTAMPS

The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20210115192857/https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/innovations/wp/2013/07/19/bezos-expeditions-retrieves-and-identifies-apollo-11-engine-5-nasa-confirms-identity/

AD

Home

Share

Democracy Dies in Darkness

By Emi Kolawole

July 19, 2013 at 6:56 p.m. UTC

A team led by Amazon founder and chief executive Jeff Bezos has confirmed the identification of a Saturn V engine retrieved from the Atlantic Ocean. A NASA spokesman confirmed Bezos’s team’s find was accurate. The announcement comes a day before the 44th anniversary of Armstrong’s first steps on the moon.

Support our journalism. Subscribe today.

The confirmation proves that the F-1 engine, engineered by the now defunct engineering rocket engine company Rocketdyne, was indeed used to carry the first astronauts to land on the moon.

Bezos, who has had a fascination with spaceflight since childhood, financed a team of specialists under the umbrella of his venture capital investments firm, Bezos Expeditions , to retrieve the engines from the Atlantic Ocean . (Space-flight company Blue Origin is among those investments.) NASA Administrator Charles Bolden wished the team “all the luck in the world” in March 2012, after Bezos contacted NASA to let them know about the mission.

AD

AD

A year later, in March 2013, the team announced that they had successfully gone 14,000 feet below the sea surface and come back with two of the Saturn V first-stage engines. Then, on Friday, they announced that a conservationist conservator had managed to surface the identification markings on one of the five engines — a serial number “2044”.

In a blog post published Friday , Bezos described the process of surfacing the numbers from under layers of build-up:

“One of the conservators who was scanning the objects with a black light and a special lens filter has made a breakthrough discovery – “2044” – stenciled in black paint on the side of one of the massive thrust chambers. 2044 is the Rocketdyne serial number that correlates to NASA number 6044, which is the serial number for F-1 Engine #5 from Apollo 11. The intrepid conservator kept digging for more evidence, and after removing more corrosion at the base of the same thrust chamber, he found it – “Unit No 2044″ – stamped into the metal surface.”

NASA spokesman Bob Jacobs confirmed in a phone call with The Washington Post on Friday that the engine’s identity was confirmed using data retrieved from NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center.

So, who owns the engine? Bezos acknowledged in 2012 , and Bolden confirmed in a statement, that NASA retained ownership of the artifacts the team recovered. Both parties also agreed that the first engine recovered would be offered to the Smithsonian Institution’s National Air and Space Museum in Washington, D.C. The second engine, both Bezos and NASA agreed, would be made available to the Museum of Flight in Seattle .

But, said NASA’s Jacobs, “we have no official relationship with Jeff’s group.”

The Bezos team’s effort draws entirely on private funds. That means, unlike NASA’s broad and deep repository of photographs, videos, artifacts and data, images and video of the Bezos findings are not public domain by default. Also, while the Smithsonian knows that the engiens exist, a spokesman for the National Air and Space Museum said it would be “premature” to say whether the museum would accept the artifacts, since NASA had not formally announced results of their own analysis. Were the artifacts offered to the National Air and Space Museum, the spokesman said, “we would consider it.”

Here’s a video of the retrieval work posted by Bezos Expeditions team:

Today’s Headlines

The most important news stories of the day, curated by Post editors and delivered every morning.

By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy