Skip to main content

Join

- Join our community

JOIN NOW

5
Premium benefits

24/7
Access available

23K+
Active Members

Expert insights

In-depth guides and features

Curated newsletters

Handpicked inspiration

Early Access

Preview new releases first

Achievements

Earn badges as you explore

Join the conversation

Comment and connect

Tailored for you

Personalised recommendations

Get Space+ Access Quick

For the quickest way to join, enter your email below. We’ll send a confirmation email and sign you up to Space.com newsletters with the latest inspiration, expert advice and exclusive offers.

By submitting your information you agree to the
Terms & Conditions
and
Privacy Policy
and are aged 16 or over.

FIND OUT ABOUT OUR MAGAZINE

Want to subscribe to the magazine? Click the button below to
find out more information.

Find out more

Get Space+ Access Quick

Join The Club for quick access. Enter your email below and we'll send confirmation, and sign you up to our newsletter.

By submitting your information, you confirm you are aged 16 or over,
have read our
Privacy Policy
and agree to the
Terms & Conditions . Geographical rules apply.

Welcome

to
Space+
!

Hi
,

Your membership journey starts here.

Keep exploring and earning more as a member.

MY ACCOUNT

Earn your first
badge

Start reading to unlock your first badge

Keep earning badges

Explore ways to get more involved as a member.

Space Exploration

Latest space missions, discoveries and exploration updates.

Explore

Astronomy

Stargazing tips, cosmic events and expert insights on the universe

Explore

Your membership perks

Start exploring exclusive deals, expert advice and more

Explore now

Never Miss a Discovery

Space news, cosmic updates and expert insights straight to your inbox.

Choose your newsletters

Sign Out

Get the Space.com Newsletter

Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more!

By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.

You are now subscribed

Your newsletter sign-up was successful

Want to add more newsletters?

Join the club

Get full access to premium articles, exclusive features and a growing list of member rewards.

Explore

An account already exists for this email address, please log in.

Click for next article

Share

-

Copy link

-

Facebook

-

X

-

Whatsapp

-

Reddit

-

Pinterest

-

Flipboard

-

Email

Share this article

Join the conversation

Follow us

Add us as a preferred source on Google

Newsletter

Subscribe to our newsletter

Search for nearly anything in the world today (July 19) and you'll be reminded of the Apollo 11 moon landing as Google celebrates the feat's anniversary with an animated doodle.

Clicking on the doodle starts a 4.5-minute-long video narrated by Michael Collins , one of the three NASA astronauts who was en route to the moon 50 years ago right now.

Related: Apollo 11 at 50: A Complete Guide to the Historic Moon Landing Mission

YouTube

Watch On

He shares what it was like to be perched at the top of a massive Saturn V rocket as it blasted away from Earth, what it was like to see the moon for himself, and how good his coffee tasted as he orbited alone while his colleagues Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin made history.

"The first time we saw the moon up close, it was a magnificent spectacle," Collins said. "It was huge. The sun was coming around it, cascading and making a golden halo and filled our entire window."

In the video, Collins also shares some of the logistical details about the flight from Earth to the moon . "We were in constant sunlight between the Earth and the moon," Collins said. "In order to regulate the temperatures on Apollo 11, we had to perform a maneuver which some called a 'barbecue roll,' in which we rotated sideways like a chicken on a spit."

But perhaps the most touching moment of the video comes when Collins talked about not spaceflight itself or the stunning views of the moon he was so privileged to visit. Instead, it comes when he shared his newfound perspective on the world he left behind.

"As impressive as the view was of this alien moon seen up close, it was nothing compared to the sight of the tiny Earth ," Collins said. "The Earth was the main show. The Earth was it."

Image 1 of 6

(Image credit: Google)

Google shared early concept sketches for the doodle made by artist Pedro Vergani.

(Image credit: Google)

(Image credit: Google)

(Image credit: Google)

(Image credit: Google)

(Image credit: Google)

Image 1 of 6

View Original

Image 2 of 6

View Original

Image 3 of 6

View Original

Image 4 of 6

View Original

Image 5 of 6

View Original

Image 6 of 6

View Original

- Relive the Apollo 11 Moon Landing Mission in Real Time

- Apollo 11 Moon Landing Giveaway with Simulation Curriculum & Celestron!

- Apollo 11 at 50: A Complete Guide to the Historic Moon Landing

Email Meghan Bartels at mbartels@space.com or follow her @meghanbartels . Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom and on Facebook .

Meghan Bartels

Senior Writer

Meghan is a senior writer at Space.com and has more than five years' experience as a science journalist based in New York City. She joined Space.com in July 2018, with previous writing published in outlets including Newsweek and Audubon. Meghan earned an MA in science journalism from New York University and a BA in classics from Georgetown University, and in her free time she enjoys reading and visiting museums. Follow her on Twitter at @meghanbartels.

Close

Please login or signup to comment

Please wait...

Login

Sign Up