177 captures

18 Aug 2000 - 30 Aug 2026

Apr
MAY
Jun

27

2012
2013
2014

success

fail

About this capture

COLLECTED BY

Organization: Alexa Crawls

Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.

Collection: Alexa Crawls

Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.

TIMESTAMPS

The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20130527012357/http://www.hq.nasa.gov:80/alsj/a11/a11.1201-fm.html

Apollo 11: 25 Years Later

by Fred H. Martin, Intermetrics, Inc.
July 1994

Copyright © 1994 by Fred H. Martin.

All rights reserved.

Used with permission.

25 years ago it happened - the first Lunar Landing, Apollo 11 - July 20,
1969. It was an exciting, exhilarating time of total focus and dedication.
Current and alumni Intermetrics employees were intimately involved with the
project since its inception in 1960 (John Miller, Jim Miller, Ed Copps, Jim
Flanders, Dan Lickly, Joe Saponaro, Bill Widnall, John Green, Alex Kosmala,
Ray Morth, Steve Copps, and me, Fred Martin). The most memorable part of the
flight for me, aside from the landing and the moon-walk itself, was the
descent from lunar orbit to the surface. I'd like to present a personal
remembrance and perspective.

I was at that time the Deputy Director of the Mission Development Group
under Dr. Richard Battin, a pioneer in modern astronautical guidance. The
M.I.T. Instrumentation Laboratory ("the Lab") was responsible for the Apollo
Guidance and Navigation System; we had designed and implemented all of the
on-board software for both the Command and Service Module (CSM) and the
Lunar Excursion Module (LEM).

On July 20th we all gathered in a large open conference room at the Lab, as
we had for previous flights to listen and follow the progress of the flight.
M.I.T. personnel actively supported each flight, 24 hours a day, by
stationing expert engineers on-line linked to NASA's Manned Space Center
(now JSC) in Houston. We waited with anticipation, pride and
apprehensiveness as the LEM began its descent toward the lunar surface. As
the vehicle approached the target, one of the astronauts, Buzz Aldrin I
believe, announced that the on-board computer just displayed a "1202 alarm".

They were confused by the alarm and appealed to the Houston controllers for
help. In the meantime the descent proceeded normally. The computer alarms
were buried deep within the executive software and really weren't meant for
user recognition. The alarms continued to appear at intervals of
approximately 10 seconds. Everyone was tense and anxious. The M.I.T.
software people and their NASA counterparts knew that the computer was
signaling overloaded executive job queues, and the potential loss of
execution of certain tasks. But, we could not figure out, in real time, the
immediate danger, the consequences for the mission, nor how in the world
such a remote alarm could have been caused in the first place. I had never
seen one or heard of one in all of our pre-flight testing.

We scrambled to understand and advise Houston. Should the Descent be
aborted? Should the Guidance System be pulled off-line in favor of the
primitive AGS (Abort Guidance System) ? Cool NASA heads at MSC kept control
and our most knowledgeable NASA software engineer, Jack Garman, advised the
Mission Controller to inform the astronauts to push on. Jack was convinced,
in a split second, that if the computer wasn't getting to certain
computations, such algorithms were not essential and would not materially
affect the landing. It was a gutsy call. He was right and the LEM landed
safely. Now the fun began.

It wasn't 10 seconds after the LEM was secured on the surface that NASA was
on the phones to the Lab. This was the Lab's responsibility, our system, our
machine, our alarms. "What were those alarms? We're launching in 24 hours
and we're not going with alarms. We must have an operational computer." We
really went to work. The computer seemed to be operating at 80% of its
normal speed, but why?

We turned to our simulation facilities. We had a high-fidelity digital
simulation of the computer and the executing programs, surrounded by a
digital simulation of the LEM vehicle, the equations of motion, and the
gravitational environment. We also had an analog simulator with the real
guidance computer, the inertial measurement unit (IMU), and a man-in-the
loop. We tried every anomalous condition. We examined the executive code,
the alarm mechanism, and the fundamental algorithms. We worked all night and
time was running short. Our NASA buddies called us every 15-30 minutes
anticipating, demanding a solution. We had to find it. We re-covered old
ground, new ground, brainstorms, crazy ideas, anything.

I remember bumping into one of our M.I.T. engineers, George Silver, who was
usually at our office at Cape Kennedy. George had been involved in and
witnessed many pre-flight tests. I asked him in frustration if he had ever
seen the Apollo Guidance Computer run slowly and under what conditions. To
my surprise and rather matter of fact, he said he had. He called it "cycle
stealing" and he said it can occur when the I/O system keeps looking for
data. He had seen it when the Rendezvous Radar Switch was on (in the AUTO
position) and the computer was looking for radar data. He asked "the Switch
isn't on, is it?" "Why would it be on for Descent, it's meant for Ascent?"

I rushed upstairs and suggested we look at the telemetry data. Some of the
M.I.T engineers found the telemetry print out, found the correct 16-bit
packed word, found the correct bit, and... yikes!!!, the bit was ON. Why was
it on? It had to be set in that position by an astronaut. We looked at the 4
inch thick book of astronaut procedures and there it was -- they were
supposed to put in on (in the AUTO position) prior to Descent. The computer
had been looking for radar data. If the astronauts were trained this way,
why had this effort never shown during training sessions? (I later found out
that such training was for procedures only and the Switch was never
connected to a real computer.)

But there was no time now for analyses or reflections. We called Houston and
delivered the cause and solution. The final countdown to Ascent was
proceeding. Just before ignition, and the last message sent to the
astronauts, Glenn Lunney, the Flight Director, calmly told the astronauts to
"please put the Rendezvous Radar Switch in the Manual position".

The Ascent and flight proceeded without incident.

Software Engineering Postscript

The Apollo program took some heat for this "software error" that almost
caused Apollo 11 to abort. At M.I.T., we always thought and most would still
maintain that the system operated as designed and saved the flight. We used
a priority driven executive, rather than a round robin, FIFO, or table
division executive. We provided for overload, or loss of computer speed, by
continuing to execute the highest priority jobs. Those jobs (tasks) that
fell off the queue were of lowest priority, perhaps a display refresh or
some other non-essential procedure. Had we demanded computer time for every
schedule task, then time would have run out, tasks would have overlapped,
data would be confused and out of sync, and the flight would have been lost.
Interestingly, this experience so influenced NASA's Jack Gorman and other
NASA and Intermetrics software engineers, that we fought long and hard to
retain a priority, asynchronous executive for Shuttle as manifested in the
HAL/S language.

The on-board Apollo Guidance Computer (AGC) was about 1 cubic foot with 2K
of 16-bit RAM and 36K of hard-wired core-rope memory with copper wires
threaded or not threaded through tiny magnetic cores. The 16-bit words were
generally 14 bits of data (or two op-codes), 1 sign bit, and 1 parity bit.
The cycle time was 11.7 micro-seconds. Programming was done in assembly
language and in an interpretive language, in reverse Polish. Scaling was
fixed point fractional. An assembly language ADD took about 23.4
micro-seconds. The operating system featured a multi-programmed,
priority/event driven asynchronous executive packed into 2K of memory. The
Mean Time to Failure (MTBF) of the machine in a space environment was
calculated at 50,000 hours -- almost 6 years, and it never failed in flight
operations. It was truly a marvel for its time, a tribute to M.I.T.'s
designers, and it accomplished a most complex mission.

Journal Home Page

Apollo 11 Journal Index