Skip to main content

Keep the news in the Wayback Machine. Sign Fight for the Future's letter .

"Donate to the archive"

Sign up
|
Log in

Upload

Internet Archive Audio

Live Music
Archive

Librivox
Free Audio

Featured

- All Audio

- Grateful Dead

- Netlabels

- Old Time Radio

- 78 RPMs
and Cylinder Recordings

Top

- Audio Books
& Poetry

- Computers,
Technology and Science

- Music, Arts
& Culture

- News &
Public Affairs

- Spirituality
& Religion

- Podcasts

- Radio News
Archive

Images

Metropolitan Museum

Cleveland
Museum of Art

Featured

- All Images

- Flickr Commons

- Occupy Wall
Street Flickr

- Cover Art

- USGS Maps

Top

- NASA Images

- Solar System
Collection

- Ames Research
Center

Software

Internet
Arcade

Console Living Room

Featured

- All Software

- Old School
Emulation

- MS-DOS Games

- Historical
Software

- Classic PC
Games

- Software
Library

Top

- Kodi
Archive and Support File

- Vintage
Software

- APK

- MS-DOS

- CD-ROM
Software

- CD-ROM
Software Library

- Software Sites

- Tucows
Software Library

- Shareware
CD-ROMs

- Software
Capsules Compilation

- CD-ROM Images

- ZX Spectrum

- DOOM Level CD

Texts

Open Library

American
Libraries

Featured

- All Texts

- Smithsonian
Libraries

- FEDLINK (US)

- Genealogy

- Lincoln
Collection

Top

- American
Libraries

- Canadian
Libraries

- Universal
Library

- Project
Gutenberg

- Children's
Library

- Biodiversity
Heritage Library

- Books by
Language

- Folkscanomy

- Government Documents

Video

TV News

Understanding
9/11

Featured

- All Video

- Prelinger
Archives

- Democracy Now!

- Occupy Wall
Street

- TV NSA Clip
Library

Top

- Animation
& Cartoons

- Arts & Music

- Computers
& Technology

- Cultural
& Academic Films

- Ephemeral Films

- Movies

- News &
Public Affairs

- Spirituality
& Religion

- Sports Videos

- Television

- Videogame
Videos

- Vlogs

- Youth Media

Mobile Apps

-
Wayback Machine (iOS)

-
Wayback Machine (Android)

Browser Extensions

-
Chrome

-
Firefox

-
Safari

-
Edge

Archive-It Subscription

-
Explore the Collections

-
Learn More

-
Build Collections

- About

- Blog

- Events

- Projects

- Help

- Donate

- Contact

- Jobs

- Volunteer

-
About

-
Blog

-
Events

-
Projects

-
Help

-
Donate

-
Contact

-
Jobs

-
Volunteer

Full text of " The life of Napoleon Bonaparte "

See other formats

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project
to make the world's books discoverable online.

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover.

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the
publisher to a library and finally to you.

Usage guidelines

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.

We also ask that you:

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for
personal, non-commercial purposes.

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe.

About Google Book Search

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web

atjhttp : //books . qooqle . com/

"'. v ' ' I 1

1 i ,

' ..c*

77? e Life of
Napoleon Bonaparte

illiam Henry Ireland

&*>?

•/*_> i ' ' § /c A I rev Ipffflw

Digitized by vJOO*

Digitized by LjOOQIC

Digitized by LjOOQIC

Digitized by

Google

Digitized by

Google

MEMBER OS THEUTHEMEUMOF SCIENCES & ARTS UT PARIS

k

(

Jntiror W^\m^^ )

*

1

LOUDON. PRINTED FOR JOHN CUMBERLAND. 19.LITDOATE HILL.
18 2 8.

Digiti

zed by G00gle

Digitized by V^OOQlC

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAP. I.

PAGE

Preparations for raising the Siege of Acre — Flag of Truce from Sir
Sidney Smith — Proclamation of the Sublime Porte— Means to cor-
rupt the French used by the English Commodore — Denon's Narra-
tive continued — Desaix returns to Cairo to procure Reinforcements
— Convents in the Vicinity of Benesuef— Encroachments of the
Sands of the Desert— Canal Jusef and other great Works— Con-
jectures respecting the Lake Maeris— Fertility of the Province of
Faium-^-Pyramid of Hilahun— Return of Desaix ; and his March
resumed — An Arab Thief— Benesech and other Villages— Grand
Portico of Hermopolis — Vermin infesting Egyptian Dwellings —
Town of Beneadi and Character of its Inhabitants— Bonaparte's *■"
Proclamation to his Army — His Ideas respecting the Capture of
Acre — Retreat of the French Army from before that Place—*
Bonaparte's Humanity to his Troops — Arrival of the Army at
Jaffa — Ample Refutation of the alleged poisoning of his Soldiers
— Disposition of the Army, its March to Gaza — Kan- Jouness, El-
Arish, and Cathieh— Official Letter of Sir Sidney Smith—Arrival
of the French Army at Cairo— Bonaparte's Estimation of the
Mamelukes — His Chinese Dwarf, and first Ideas of Grandeur
— Loss sustained by the French during the Syrian Expedition—
Bonapabtb's Supposition respecting the Plague— Desgenettes,
Chief Physician of the Army— Baron Larrey's extraordinary
Statement respecting the Recovery of the sick — Heroism of Xhe
Army, and humane Conduct of the Medical Staff , . . . 1

CHAP. II.

•

M. Miof s Account of the sacrificing the Turkish Prisoners at Jaffa
—Curious Statements respecting the Siege of Acre — Denon's Nar-
rative continued — Town of Syut, or Lycopolis — Character of the
Liybian Range of Mountains— Ancient excavated Tombs— Doum
Palm-tree— The Red and White Coptic Convents— Large Town of
Girgeh, and Abundance of Provisions— Conversation with a Nu-
bian Prince— Thieving Disposition of the Egyptians— Arabian
pales, and Manner of relating them— Baths— Thunder .in Egypt—
Arrival of the Flotilla— Battle with, the Mamelukes, at Samanhut
—Pursuit, of Murad-Bey— Approach to Tentyra— Character of
Egyptian Architecture— Magnificent Portico— Style of the Orna-
ments and Hieroglyphics — Crocodiles in the River — Astonishing

b

Digitized by

Google

vi CONTENTS.

Effect of the first Approach of Thebes— General Site of the Mo-
numents and the Necropolis— Colossal Statues of tfemnon and
Osymandy as— Names of eminent Visiters inscribed— Palace of
Medinet— Abu— Singular Tamarisk-tree— Sudden Contraction of
the Nile— Beautiful Portico at Esneh, or Latopolis— Hieraconpo-
lis—Etfu— First View of Appollinopolis Magna — Harassing
March through the Desert— Village of Biuban and affecting Inci-
dents—Further Details respecting the Troops attacked by the.
Plague at Jafla— Dreadful State of a dying Soldier— Proclamation
of Napoleon from the Divan at Cairo— Bonaparte's Reference to
the Egyptian Expedition of Saint Louis— His Perusal of the
Book of Judith, and Opinions of the Religions of Mahomet and
of Jesus Christ 46

CHAP. III.

Account of the Institute at Cairo and the learned Men who accom-
panied the Expedition to Egypt — Denon's Narrative continued —
Gazelles in the Desert— Approach to Syene— Beautiful. View of
the Island of Elephantina— Syene and the Frontiers of Upper
Egypt— Quarters of the Army— Temple of Cneph and other Mo-
numents, at Elephantina— Trade of Syene— Encounter of the
French Cavalry With Assan-Bey— Carved Blocks of Granite-
Cataracts of the Nile- Island of Philoe— Ethiopian Village and
its Inhabitants — Napoleon's Questions to the Institute — Amuse-
ments of the French Officers — Petrified Forest — Fluctuation of
the Sands of the Desert— Egyptian Mode of conveying Intelligence,
or a Substitute for Telegraphs— Return of Miot and his Troop to
Cairo— Movements of the Mamelukes preparatory to the Battle of
Aboukir— Arrival of the Turkish Fleet off Aboukir— Operations
of the French to frustrate the Intentions of the Turkish Armament
Napoleon's Letters to the Divans of Rosette and Grand Cairo-
Disembarkation of the Turks at Aboukir— Bonaparte takes his
Position at the Wells between Alexandria and Aboukir— His sin-
gular Conversation with General Murat, and spirited Reply of
that intrepid Officer— M. Miofs Opinion in Respect to Napoleon's
Exclamation, and his being then resolved to leave the Army of
Egypt and embark for Europe. 86

CHAP. IV.

Detail's Expedition to Upper Egypt— Takes the Town of Behnese
—Battle of Sedinan— Description of the Opthalmia— The French
take Fayum, Siut, and Girgeh— General Rapp made Colonel at
the Battle of Samanhout— Battles of Aboumanah and Souhama—
The Yambodian Arabs attack the French Flotffla— Victory of
Copthos— Battle of Benout— Denon's Note continued—Attack on

Digitized by

Google

CONTENTS* vii

Philee and Expulsion of the Inhabitant*— Monument* la that
Island— Different Periods of Egyptian Architecture— FrendtFort
erected at Syene— Ancient Monuments of Cenobites beyond the
Cataracts— Battle of Keneh— Actions of Bardis, Girgeh, and
Baramba— Capture of Beneaxti— Account of Murad-Bey 107

CHAP. V.

Napoleon's Plan of Operations after arriving at Cairo— He quits
that City for the Pyramids of Gisah, where he receives Informa-
tion of the Fleet being anchored off Aboukir— Bonaparte's
various Dispositions previous to that celebrated Conflict— Situation
of die Forces of Mustapha Pacha and the Turkish Fleet— Denon's
Account resumed— Voyage up the River beyond Syene— Monu-
ments at Ombos— Famous Quarries of Gebel Silsilis, and sculp-
tured Tombs in their Vicinity— Crocodiles— Proceedings of the
Mamelukes— Arrival at Hermontis — Visit to the Necropolis of
Thebes— Arrival at Rous— Capture of the French Flotilla by the
Meccans— Battle of Benhute — Storming the Fortress, and critical
Situation of the French Army— The Army of Bonaparte and
Mustapha Pacha in Presence, of each other— Ample Detail of .the
Battle and Victory of Aboukir, with the Storming and Surrender

' of the Fort 137

CHAP. VI.

Napoleon embarks for France — Effect produced on the Army by his
Departure— Kleber appointed Commander-in-Chief— Description
of that General — The Grand Vizir advances against the French,
and is defeated — Negotiations between Kleber and Sir Sydney
Smith — Armistice signed — M. Denon arrives at Keneh from
whence he proceeds to Rous— Ruins at that Place— Arrival at
Thebes — Temples at Karnac and Luxor, Salamieh and Esneh —
Temple of Latopolis— Ruins at Chenubis and Apollinopolis— Re-
mains at Etfu — Route to Tombuctoo— Crocodiles— Ruins at Den-
dera— Ancient Zodiac— Tentyra— Tombs of the Egyptian Mo-
narchs at Thebes— Grottos, Paintings, and Sculptures— Ancient
Manuscript on Papyrus— Porticos of Medinet Abu — Statues of
Memnon and Osymandyas— Concerning Mummies, and ancient
Mode of Sepulture— Embarkation for Cairo— Ruins of Antinoe—
Monastery of the Chain— Embarkation for France, and arrival at
Frejus — Amount of the Ottoman and French Armies — Convention
signed at El-Arish — Desaix embarks for France — Description of
that General — Kleber*g secret Despatches to the Directory fall into
the Hands ofthe English— The Convention with Kleber broken by
the British— Kleber attacks the Grand Vizir, and defeats, with
Thirteen Thousand Men, the Ottoman Army, composed of Forty

Digitized by

Google

viii CONTENTS.

Thousand Troops— Klebef returns to Cairo, defeats the Turks,
and re-possesses himself of that City— Death of General Lanusse
— Conditions of the Treaty for the evacuating of Egypt— Assassi-
nation of General Kleber— Menou appointed Commander-in-Chief,
and Letter of that Officer detailing the State of the French Army
on its Embarkation for Europe 151,

CHAP. VII.

Napoleon lands at Frejus— Rapacity* of Talleyrand Perigord, Ex-
Bishop of Autun— Bonaparte's Reception at Lyons — Critical
Situation of the French Republic — Napoleon's Arrival at Paris —
Machinations with Sieves and Ducos, the Directors — Napoleon's
Privacy— -The Eighteenth Brumaire — Decree adjourning the Meet-
ing of the Assemblies to St. Cloud—Proclamation of Fouche,
Minister of Police— Bonaparte marches Ten Thousand Men to
the Tuileries — Resignation demanded of Barras— The Luxembourg
Invested— Barras yields up his Authority— Bonaparte's Address
to the Secretary Botot— Assembly of the Council of Five Hundred
—The Nineteenth Brumaire— Meeting of the Assembly in the
Orangerie, at St Cloud — Napoleon's Speech to the Council —
Stormy Proceedings in the Assembly of Five Hundred— Perilous
Situation of Lucien Bonaparte — Napoleon wounded in the cheek
— The President's Address to the Soldiers— An armed Force
enters the Council of Five Hundred — The Members are expulsed
—Proceedings of the Council of Ancients— Project of a New
Form of Government— Nomination of Sieyes, Ducos, and Bona-
parte, as Consuls— Address to the French Nation— Napoleon's
Proclamation respecting the Transactions of the Nineteenth Bru-
maire—The Three Consuls approved by the Council of Ancients-
Address of the Consuls to the French People 206

CHAP. VIII.

Napoleon's Sentiments respecting the Eighteenth Brumaire— First
Steps adopted by the Consular Government — Lenient Measures
pursued in regard to the Priesthood and Emigrants — Contrary
Policy manifested relative to French Prisoners in England— Fi-
nancial Arrangements — Stability of the New Order of Things —
Abstract of the Consular Form of Government— Raederer's Analysis
of the Constitution— Caricatures on the Directory— Character of
the Parisians — Cambaceres, Le Bran, and Abbe Sieyes— National
Donation awarded to the last-mentioned Statesman, and an Ac-
count of his political Career — Arrangement of the Council of
State — Bonaparte's Proclamations to the Generals and Soldiers
—Sabre presented to General St Cyr, and Napoleon's Letter to

Digitized by

Google

CONTENTS. ix

Augereau on his Appointment to the Command of the Batavian
Army— Letter of the First Consul to the Magistrates of Ham-
burgh, on the Subject of Napper Tandy's Arrest— Religion tole-
rated, and Endeavours of the several Sects to' acquire supreme
Ascendency — Napoleon enters into Negotiations for Peace,
which are rejected by England and the Court of Vienna— Efforts
resorted to by 'Great Britain and France for the Recommencement
of Hostilities — Reflections on the Political Change effected by
Napoleon in France — Termination of Hostilities in La Vendee—
Bonapaete sets forward to take the Command of the Army of
Italy 2*8

CHAP. IX.

Bonapaete commands the Army of Italy at the Passage of Mount
Saint Bernard, and Bangers attending that momentous Enterprise
—Capture of Aosta and Chatillon— Difficulties which the French
Forces had to encounter at Fort de Barre and the Rock of Albaredo
— Dangers and Fatigues encountered by the First Consul — Taking of
Ivrea, Romagna, and VerceUi— Triumphant Entrance into Milan-
Account of the City of Pavia— Battle of Montebello— Enthusiasm
of the Troops for Bonaparte— Arrival of the First Consul and his
Army on the Plains of Marengo— Battle of Marengo— Interesting
Description of that memorable Conflict, by an Officer of the Con-
sular Guard— Arrival of Desaix — Napoleon's Opinion of the
Austrian Troops at the Battle of Marengo, as handed down in the
Memoirs of Count Las Cases— Bon apaete's Description of the
Affair at Marengo— Results of the Battle— Traits of Humanity-
Military Capacity of Napoleon, particularly exemplified at Ma-
rengo— Convention between the French and Imperial Armies-
Death and Character of Desaix— Fallacy of the generally-received
Opinion that the Victory at Marengo was solely due to the gallant '
Desaix— Napoleon's Remark to that brave Officer, and his Opinion
of General Desaix, as delivered to the French Institute. ••»..... 27)

CHAP. X.

Arrival of Napoleon at Lyons after the Battle of Marengo— His
Return to Paris — Universal Joy at the signing of Preliminaries for
Peace— Alteration in Weights and Measures — Attempted Assassi-
nation of the First Consul by means of die infernal Machine-
Obstacles thrown in the way of Peace with Austria by the British
Cabinet— Preparations for the Recommencement of Hostilities —
General Massena's Proclamation to the Army— Moreau's Letter
to the Archduke John— Festival of the first Vendimiare— Telegra-
phic Bulletin from Moreau to the First Consul— Further Conven-

Digitized by

Google

X CONTENTS.

tion for suspending Hostilities— Conferences rejecting a Naval
Armistice with Great Britain— Letter from Mr. Hammond to M.
Otto— Malta surrendered to the English— Bqnapaetb tolerates the
Return of the Emigrants— Strenuous Preparations for the renewal
of War by France and Germany— The Emperor Paul claims the
Nomination of Grand Master of Malta— Moreau victorious at
Hohenlinden— Operations of the Armies of Generals Lecourbe,
Macdonald, and Augereau— Consternation at Vienna— Armistice
signed between General Moreau and the Archduke Charles— The
French possess themselTes of Tuscany, and the Port of Leghorn
confiscating all English Merchandize— Peace ratified between the
First Consul of the French Republic and the Emperor of Germany
—Bonaparte's Address to the Senate— General Illuminations at
Paris in Honour of the Peace signed at Luneville MO

CHAP. XI.

European Politics— Views of Napoleon after the Peace of Lune-
ville— Endeavours to revive the Confederacy of 1780 — Ambassador
sent to Paris by the Emperor Paul— He arms against England —
An English Squadron despatched to Copenhagen — Napoleon's
Views respecting the Invasion of Britain — He attacks Portugal
— Mediation proposed by Spain, but rejected by England— Spain
joins France in the War — Hostilities commenced, and rapid Pro-
gress of the Spanish Arms— Peace between Spain and Portugal,
to which Napoleon refuses to accede— Operations between the
French and Portuguese— Peace concluded — Nelson's two Attacks
on Boulogne— Preparations for Peace — Signing of Preliminaries
and enthusiastic Joy on that Occasion— The Concordat— Bonaparte
consolidates his Power — His Character and Views — Picture of
France presented to the Nation — Anecdotes and Traits respecting *
the First Consul— Canova and the Arts — The Concordat ratified,
with Anecdotes on that Occasion — Lord Cornwallis departs from
Paris, and marked Honours paid to him— Proceeds to Amiens —
Delay in the Negotiations — Napoleon repairs to Lyons to meet
the Deputies from the Cisalpine Republic, and is appointed its
President— Returns to Paris — Disclosure of Secret Treaties with
Portugal and the Sublime Porte, and Increase of Territory thereby
acquired by the French Republic — Jealousy created in England
and vigorous Preparations for a Renewal of War — The Treaty of
Peace at length ratified at Amiens 370

CHAP. XII.

Peace proclaimed at London and Exchange of Ambassadors— Cele-
bration of the Concordat at Paris— Nature of the Concordat, and
its Regulations favourable to Religious Toleration— A triumphal

Digitized by

Google

CONTENTS. xi

Portico offered to be dedicated to the Consul, and hit modest Re-
mark—Proepect of France for the re-capture of St Domingo—
Institution of the Legion of Honour— Resignation of the King of
Sardinia— Accession of Parma, Piedmont, &o. to France.— The
Ligurian Republic organised— Unsuccessful Attempts to establish
a Commercial Intercourse between England and France*- Abuse
of Bomavautk in the English Newspapers— N a polio* made
Consul for Ten Years, and soon after for Life^Affairs of Swit-
aerland -Letter to Citizen Reding, concerning the Swiss Govern-
ment—Constitution tendered to the Switaers by France, and
Commotions in that Country— Submission of the Helvetic Repub-
lic and Establishment of the Swiss Constitution— Refusal of Eng-
land to ratify the Peace of Amiens by the Retention of Malta-
Preparations for War renewed— Admiral Linois sails from Brest ;
the French occupy Tarentum, in Italy, and General Mortis* pos-
sesses himself of Hanover— Interesting Conversation between
Napolbok and Lord Whitworth— Return of the British Ambas-
sador to England— The British in France made Prisoners of War —
Holland espouses the Cause of the French Republic — Proclama-
tion of Admiral Bruix to the Army destined to invade England—
Exposition.of the State of the French Republic 411

CHAP. XIII.

Conspiracy of Georges, Pfchegru, Moreau, Ac— -Mystery of Cant.
Wright* s Assassination, &c. explainebV^Aiiimadversions respecting
the Conduct of England, in the Montour— Seisure of the Duke
d'Enghien — Napoleon's Order respecting Suicide— Participation
of England in Plots against the Consular Government — Overtures
from Louis XVIII. to the Consul — Bonapaetb proclaimed
Emperor— Address presented by the Senate— Nomination of
French Marshals— Letters sent to the French Bishops—Cause of
the Duke d'Enghien espoused by different Powers— Seisure of
Sir George Rumbold— Arrival of the Pope at Paris— The Co-
ronation—David's Picture of that Ceremony described— Retro-
spect of Public Affaire in France— Napoleon's Letter to the Sang
of England— Lord Mulgrave'e Answer— French, Comments on that
Correspondence— The French Government still anxious for Peace
— Bonapaetb crowned King of Italy— Benefits conferred on Bo*
logna by Napoleon— Genoese Territories attached to France-
Anecdote of Napoleon, when in the Vicinity of Lyons— Descrip-
tion of the Grand Fete given to the Emperor, at Boulogne— Bo-
naparte suddenly sets off for Paris* in consequence of the
threatening Aspect of Affairs, as regarded Austria and Russia.. . 460

CHAP. XIV.
The Camp at Boulogne broken up, and the Army marched to oppose

Digitized by

Google

XU " CONTENTS.

the Austrian* and Russians in Germany— Talleyrand's Note to.
Count Cobentzel, previous to the above Determination on the Part
of Napoleon— Expose of the Emperor to the Conservative Senate
of France— Napoleon quits Paris to join the Grand Army and .
March of the various Corps— His Proclamation to the Troops-
Battles of Wertingen, Guntsburgh Memmingen, and Elchingen,
all of which were in favour of the French— Bonaparte's Address
to his. Army on investing Ulm— Account of the Affair at the latter
City— Capitulation of Ulm, signed by General Mack, when 30,000
Men laid down their Arms on the Glacis— A Campaign terminated *
in a few Days — Operations of Marshal Massena in Italy, against
the Archduke Charles— Results of the Defeats sustained by the.
Austrians and Russians at Ulm— Napoleon proceeds to Munich
-—Disposition of his Army— The French pass the Inn, near Bran-
nau— The Imperialists and Russians retreat towards Vienna — The
Emperor of Austria's Proclamation to his Subjects— Saltzburg,
~ Lintz, and the Ems, abandoned— At Amstettin the Russians make
a Stand and are defeated— An Armistice proposed by Count Giu-
lay, but refused by Napoleon— Affair of Marienzell— Proclama-
tions of the Emperor Francis disregarded by- his Subjects— The
French enter Vienna without further Opposition, and quiet Beha-
viour of the Troops — Part of the Army advances towards Moravia
— Bravery of 6000 French opposed to 20,000 Russians at Stein—
The Emperor of Austria proceeds from Brunn to Olmutz— Ano-
ther Proclamation issued by Francis — Russians attacked and pur-
sued, with the Events that preceded the Affair of Austerlitz.. . . . . 403

CHAP. XV.

Operations of the French Army after the Capture of Vienna— Thir-
teenth Bulletin, giving an ample Detail of the Affair at Aus-
terlitz— Anecdote of General Rapp, and other interesting Particu-
lars relative to the Battle— Thirty-first Bulletin of the Grand Army,
made public at the Theatre Francois, at Paris — Napoleon's- Or-
der of the Day to his Army, previous to the Conflict at Austerlitz
— The Emperor's Proclamations after the Victory — Results of the
Defeat of the Russians, and Preliminaries of Peace signed, with
Napoleon's Proclamation to his Soldiers, previous to his Depar-
ture from Schoenbrunn to the French Capital 532

Digitized by

Google

THE

LIFE

,0F

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.

CHAP. I.

Preparations for raising the Siege of Acre— Flag of
Truce from Sir Sidney Smith — Proclamation of the
Sublime Porte — Means to corrupt the French used by

the EnglishCommodore — Denon's Narrative continued

Desaix returns to Cairo to procure Reinforcements

Convents in the Vicinity of Benesuef— Encroachments of
.the Sands of the Desert — Canal Jusef and other great
Works— Conjectures respecting the Lake Maris — Fer-
tility of the Province of Faium— Pyramid of Hilahun
— Return of Desaix ; and his March resumed— An Arab
Thief— Benesech and other Villages — Grand Portico
of Hermopolis— Vermin infesting Egyptian Dwellings—

Town of Beneadi and Character of its Inhabitants

Bonaparte's Proclamation to his Army— His Ideas
respecting the Capture of Acre — Retreat of the French
Army frombef ore that Place — Bon carte's Humanity
to his Troops — Arrival of the Army at Jaffa— 'Ample
Refutation of the alleged poisoning of his Soldiers

# Disposition of the Army, its March, to Gaza — Kan-Jou-
ness, El-Arish, and Cathieh— Official Letter of Sir Sid-
ney Smith — Arrival of the French Army at Cairo — Bo-
Vol. II.— No. 16. b

• Digitized by

Google

2 THE LIFE OF

KAFARTe's Estimation of the Mamelukes — His Chinese
Dwarf, and first Ideas of Grandeur — Loss sustained bys
the French during the Syrian Expedition — Bonapar-
te's Supposition respecting the Plague — Desgenettes9
Chief Physician of the Army — Baron Larreys extraor-
dinary Statement respecting the Recovery of the sick —
Heroism of the Army, and humane Conduct of the
Medical Staff.

The Syrian expedition approximated to its close; the
army had traversed the desert which separates Africa from
Asia with the rapidity of a native force, and, overpowering
every thing that opposed its progress, had gained posses-
sion of the several fortified posts which commanded the
wells and fountains in the desert. It had disconcerted
the plans of the enemy, by the boldness and rapidity of
Us operations. It had dispersed, in the plains of Esdron
and the district of Monnt Thabor, a force of not less than
twenty-five thousand horsemep and ten thousand infantry,
hastily collected from different parts of Asia, in the hope
of participating in the plunder of Egypt, and had obliged
the force which was proceeding, in thirty ships, to attack
the principal ports of Egypt, to alter its destination, and
hasten to the relief of St. John d'Acre.

To consider this point farther, Bonaparte bad, with
a force of about ten thousand men, carried into and main-
tained the war in the very heart of Syria, during three
months; he had destroyed the most formidable of the
armies destined for the invasion of Egypt, captured its
field equipage and artillery, its camels, and one of its
principal generals. He had killed or made prisoners
more than seven thousand men, taken forty field-pieces,
and more than one hundred stand of colours, and sub-
dued the fortresses of Gaza, Jaffa, and Caiffa. The
fortress of Acre did not appear inclined to surrender ; but
he had already attained the principal advantages which he
could hope from the continuance of the siege. A few

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 3

days' perseverance night have enabled him to take the
Pacha tn his palace. Bat Bonaparte was aot to be
affected by the vain glory of such an exploit ; the period
which he had destined for the Syria* expedition was ap-
proaching; besides, the season proper for affecting
descents on the coast of Egypt was drawiag near, a con-
sideration that rendered his presence with the amy essen-
tially necessary in that quarter, in order to repel the at-
tempts of the enemy. The plagne was also making an
alarming progress in Syria ; seven handled of the French
troops had already fallen viotims to the contagion, and,
according to accounts received by way of Tyre, more than
sixty men died daily in the fortress of Acre of this dis-
temper. Under saeh circumstances, coold the capture
of that place compensate for the loss of time so precious
as that of Bonaparte, or for the sacrifice of such a num-
ber of gallant soldiers as must necessarily perish, and
who were so essentially required for operations of greater
magnitude.

All military men, who have carried on sieges against
the Turks, weH know that they fight, not only to the last
man, but even hazard the lives of their women and chil-
dren in defence of the mere heap of stones that remains.
They never capitulate, or place any reliance on the good
faith of an enemy ; because, in similar circumstances, they
entertain no idea but that of sacrificing their adversaries.
The siege of Acre might possibly last some time longer,
and continue to prove bloody and desperate ; every con-
sideration recalled Bonaparte into Egypt: he could
not, without compromising the fate of his tfrmy and his
conquests, protract his stay in Syria. The advantages
and the glory of the expedition did not depend on the
fall of the castle of Acre. Combined and powerful con-
siderations determined the General to raise the -siege ;
several days would be necessary for the removal of the
sick and wounded. During that interval, therefore, he
ordered that all the batteries, cannon, and mortars, should

Digitized by

Google

4 THE LIFE OF

be directed against the palace of Dgezzar, and that the
remainder of the siege ammunition should be expended
in demolishing that structure, together with the fortifica-
tions and other public buildings.

On the 15th of May, at break of day, the French ob-
served the English commodore set sail, in company with
three Turkish ships : it appeared, that just before he had
received the intelligence of the capture of two of his
avisos and two Turkish ships ; he was, in consequence,
alarmed respecting a convoy of dgerms, and two Turkish
*voisos that had been despatched to the port of Abouza-
bourra, to take on board a number of Naplouzians, whom
Dgezzar supposed had again risen in his behalf. It ap-
peared that Contre-Admiral Per6e was actually in chase
of the flotilla, but it was rescued .by the English ; when
the French frigates stood out to sea, the enemy did not
pursue them, but immediately returned to their former
station before Acre. The 16th, at half past two in the
morning, the Turks made a sortie from the fortress, but
they were warmly received, and driven back with loss.
At seven o'clock they made a second sortie with a greater
force, and attacked all the advanced posts, but every
where they met the same reception as in the preceding in-
stance; they were unable to form a single trench, as the
batteries played upon them with grape-shot, and they
were finally driven back with the bayonet into their outer-
works, which, as well as the intermediate ground, were
strewed with their dead. This brilliant affair did not cost
the French more than twenty killed, and about fifty
wounded.

On the 17th an English flag of truce was seen ad van*
cing towards the shore ; the bearer was accompanied by
the Turk who had been sent with a flag of truce to
Dgezzar on the 11th : the former brought a letter to the
chef de That major ; from the English commodore, who,
speaking of Bonapartb, thus expressed, himself: —
" Does he not know that it rests with me alone to dis-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. . 5

pose of the ground which lies under my artillery 1" He
stated that Dgezzar could send no answer Without his
concurrence and participation, and that it was to him
all propositions were to be addressed. The officer who
commanded the English boat also delivered a packet,
containing proclamations of the Ottoman Porte, certified
by the signature " Sidney Smith :" they were con-
ceived in the following terms :—

PROCLAMATION.

" The Minister of the Sublime Porte,

" To the Generals, Officer*, and Soldiers of the French

Army in Egypt.

" The French Directory, entirely forgetting the rights
of nations, has led you into an error, beguiled your good
faith, and, in contempt of the laws of war, sent you to
Egypt, a country subject to the dominion of the Sublime
Porte, persuading you that it would consent to the inva-
sion of its territories.

" Can you doubt, that in thus sending you to a distant
region, its sole end has been to exile you from France, to
plunge you into an abyss of dangers, and to consign you
to destruction. If, under a total ignorance of your situa-
tion, you have entered the land of Egypt ; if you have
served as the instruments of a violation of treaties,
hitherto unknown among powers, is it not solely through
the perfidy of your Directors? Yes; without dodbt.
Egypt, however, most be delivered from an invasion so
iniquitous. Innumerable armies for that purpose are
this moment on their march, and immense fleets already
cover the seas.

" Those among you, of whatever rank, who wish to
withdraw from the perils that await you, must, without
delay, manifest your intentions to the marine and land
forces of the allied powers ; and you may rest assured of
being conducted to those places to which yeu are desi-
rous of proceeding, and that you shall be furnished with

Digitized by LjQOQlC

g THE LIFE OF

passports, in order that you may Dot be molested on year
routes by the cruisers or squadrons of the allied powers*
Hasten, therefore, in time to take advantage of the
benign intentions of the Sublime Porte, and regard this
as a propitious offer to extricate yourselves from the
frightful abyss into which you have been plunged.

" Signed at Constantinople, the II ih of the Moan Ra-
mazan, the Year of Hegir<% 1218/' (February 5, 1799 .J

" I, the undersigned Minister Plenipotentiary of the
King of England at the Ottomon Porte, at present com-
manding the combined fleet before Acre, certify the
authenticity of this proclamation, and guarantee the ex-
ecution of the same.*

(Signed) " Sidney Smith.

* Onboard the Tyre, this 14)th of May, 1799."

This document received no otheranswer than that which
insulted honour accords to infamous advice — silent con-
tempt. The English commodore informed the enemy,

♦ It is well known that Sir Sidney Smith did every thing in his
power to corrupt the French army in Egypt. The false intelligence
From Europe — the slanders respecting the General -in-chief- the
powerful bribes held out to the officers and soldiers— were all appro-
ved by him:— the documents are published, and his proclamations
are known.

At one time they created sufficient alarm in the French General to
induce him to seek to put a stop to them ; which he did, by forbid-
ding all communication with the English, and stating, in the order of
the day, that their Commodore had gone mad. This assertion was
believed in the French army ; and it so much enraged Sir Sidney
Smith, that he sent Nopoleon a challenge. The General replied,
"that he had business of too £reat importance on his hands to think of
troubling himself about such a trifle ; had he received a challenge
from the great Marlborough, then indeed he might have thought it
worth his while to consider of it; but if the English seaman really
felt inclined to amuse himself at a tilting match, he would send him
a tall, bullying grenadier, and neutralize a few yards of the sea-
coast, where the mad Commodore might come ashore and enjoy it to
his heart's content."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. J

that an alliance was agreed upon between England and
the Porte, and signed the 5th January, 1799. He also
sent some French prisoners who had fallen into the hands
of Dgezzar. The officer who commanded the English
boat was sent back without any answer, and the firing con-
tinued on both sides.

During the night the French commenced the removal
of their sick, wounded, and the park of artillery. The
first battalion of the sixty-ninth demi-brigade set out on
the 18th May, and the twelfth followed it on the 19th :
these formed the escort of the wounded and artillery.
The advanced guard, under the orders of General Junot,
after having destroyed the magazines of Tabarie, took a
position at Saffarie, in order to cover the defiles of Obe-
line and Chef-Amrs, near the camp before Acre.

The English who had been latterly bombarded and
cannonaded from the batteries more severely than ever,
and beholding such a terrible fire directed against the pa-
lace of Dgezzar, and those parts of the fortifications which
had hitherto remained untouched, as well as all the public
edifices, on the 20th May, at day-break, made a general sor-
tie; but the besiegers received them with their usual intre-
pidity, and speedily forced them to retire. This unsuc-
cessful effort, however, did not discourage them ; at three
in the afternoon they rushed out again, and attacked the
French at every point : on this occasion they employed
all the reinforcements they had received, and the whole
fought with a degree of fury and desperation which they
bad never before manifested. Their object was to gain
those batteries that played upon the town, and to save it
from ruin, by destroying them. But, notwithstanding
the ardour and perseverance of these attacks, the Turks
were every where repulsed, and compelled to retire, with
considerable loss; they, however, gained a temporary
possession of one of the works hear the glacis of the
breach-tower, but it was soon retaken by General La-
grange, who commanded in that direction ; he attacked

Digitized by

Google

8 THE LIFE OF

vigorously with two companies of grenadiers, drove them
out of the work, and pursued them to the verge of the
fosses, killing all who did not fly for protection under the
guns of the fortress.

The. whole of the battering cannon being now removed,
they were replaced on the batteries by some field -pieces;
the French then destroyed, by means of amine and sapping,
an aqueduct of several leagues in length, which supplied
the town of Acre with fresh water, and reduced all the
magazines and crops in its vicinity to ashes. After
having thrown every thing useless, or not worth removing,
into the sea, they then began to raise the siege. The
following proclamation, issued by the General-in-Chief,
sufficiently explains the motives that prompted him to
adopt this conduct.*

We now resume M. Denon's account of his researches

in

Upper Egypt, while accompanying the expedition entrusted to
General fiesaix.

The real advantage obtained at the sanguinary battle of Sedinan,
was detaching the Arabs from the Mameluke forces ; while to this
may be added, the fear with which our mode of fighting inspired the
enemy. Notwithstanding the disproportion of numbers, the unfavour-
able position we occupied, and the circumstances in their favour,
which must have made them reckon on our total annihilation, the
result of this conflict put an end to such flattering illusions. Murad
Bey now changed his plan of operations, and relinquishing all hope
of breaking through the ranks of the infantry, or resisting its attacks
in the open field, he thus prevented a speedy termination of the cam-
paign by decisive blows, and we were consequently reduced to the
expedient of pursuing an active and restless enemy ; who, by anxious
and unwearied precautions, left his opponents neither rest or security.
Thus the mode of warfare adopted bore a strong resemblance to
that of Antony when engaged against the Parthians : the Roman
legions, invincible in the field, overthrew their enemy's battalions,
and found no other obstacle than the space of country which their
foes left behind them ; but, exhausted with daily losses, the victors
thought themselves fortunate to be able to quit the territory of a
people who, always beaten but never subdued, would, even the day
after a defeat, return with invincible ^perseverance to harass those
whom they had just left masters of an unprofitable field of battle.
• The heat of the days and the coolness of the nights in this sea-
son had afflicted the army with much inflammation of the eyes ;
this disease is unavoidable when lone marches and fatiguing days
are followed by night-watching, in wnich the humidity of the air

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BOKAPARTE. »

" PROCLAMATION.

•V Head-Quarters before Acre, ' the 17th Day of
May, 1799.

" Bonaparte, General-in-Chief.

:" Soldiers, — Yon have traversed the desert which
separates Africa from Asia, with the rapidity of an Arab
force.

represses perspiration ; vicissitudes which bring on inflammation either
in the eyes or the bowels.

" Desaix, to lose no time in levying the requisitions, and pro-
curing horses in the province which he had just conquered, left three
hundred and fifty men at Faium, and set out to reduce the villages
which Murad-Bey had excited to revolt. During hi* absence in
the province, a thousand Mamelukes, and a number fellahs, or pea-
sants, came to attack the town which contained our sick men.

" General Robin, and the chief of brigade, Ex u per, who, with the
troops he commanded, were all suffering under ophthalmia, per-
formed prodigies of valour, and drove back, from street to street, a
whole host of enemies, after making a terrible slaughter among them.
Desaix rejoined these brave men, and the whole army marched by
Benesuef, to dispute with Murad-Bey the resources of this rich pro-
vince.

When arrived at Benesuef, Desaix returned to Cairo, in order to
procure the means of .renewing the campaign : be there collected and
despatched forward every thing which he thought necessary to secure
his marches, and to force Murad to come to action.
' On the left bank of the Nile, opposite Benesuef, the Arabian chain
of mountains lowers, retires further off, and forms the valley of Arha,
or the Chariots, terminated by Mount Kolsuri, rendered famous by
the grottoes of two cenobite patriarchs, St. Anthony and St. Paul,
the founders of the monastic order, and creators of this contemplative"
system, which is so useless to mankind, and has been so long respected
by the credulous people. On the soil which covers the two grottoes,
which these hermit saints inhabited, two monasteries still .exist,. from
one of which it is said Mount Sinai, beyond the Red-Sea, may be
discerned. The mouth of this valley, towards the Nile, exhibits
nothing but a dreary plain, the only cultivated part of which is a
narrow slip of land on the bank of the river : some vestiges of villages
overwhelmed by the sand may be discovered, and they present the
afflicting sight of daily devastation, produced by the continual en*
croachment of the desert on the soil, inundated by sand.

Nothing is so melancholy to the feelings as to march over these
ruined villages, to tread under foot the roofs of the. houses, and the
tops of minarets ; and to think that these were once cultivated fields
flourishing trees, and the habitations of man*— every thing living has
disappeared, silence is within and round every wall, and the deserted
villages are like the dead, whose skeletons strike with terror.

VOL. II.— 16. c

Digitized by

oogle

|0 THE LIFE OF

44 The army which was on its march to invade Egypt
is destroyed : you have taken its general, its field artil-

Tbe ancient Egyptians speak of this encroachment of the sands,
Voder the symbol of the mysterious entrance of Typhon into the
bed of his sister-in-law Isis ; an incest which is to change Egypt into
a desert as frightful as those by which it is encompassed ; and this
great event will happen when the Nile finds a lower level, through
some one of the surrounding valleys, than the bed where it now flows,
and which b constantly getting higher. This idea, which at first
appears extraordinary, will be thought probable, when we consider
the local situation. The elevation of the Nile, and the rise of its
banks, have made of it an artificial canal, which would by this time
have put Faium under water, if the caliph Jusef had not raised new
dykes upon the old ones, and dug a collateral canal below Benesuef,
to restore to the river a part of the water which is every year poured
forth by the overflowing into this vast basin. If it were not for the
causeways that stop the inundation, the great swells would soon con-
vert this whole province into a large lake, which was actually threat-
ened twenty-fivo years ago by an extraordinary inundation, when the
river had risen over the banks of Hilaon, and it was much feared
cither that the province would remain under water, or that the stream
would resume an ancient channel, which it had evidently occupied
in remote ages. To remedy this inconvenience, a graduated d vke
has been raised near Hilaon, where there is a sluice erected, which,
as soon as the inundation has got to the proper height to water the '
province without drowning it, divides the mass of water, takes the
quantity necessary to irrigate Faium, and turns off the remainder by
forcing it back into the river through other canals of a deeper cut.
If a conjecture might be haaarded, we would say, that, before the
most ancient times of which we have any knowledge, the whole Delta
was only a large gulph which received the waves of the Mediter-
ranean ; that the Nile came as far as the opening of the valley which
enters the province of Faium ; that by the dry river it went to form
the MarSotis, which was one of its estuaries to the sea, as the lake
Madie was that of the Canopic branch, and as the lakes of Berelos
and Menzaleh are still the estuaries of the Sebenitic, Mendeisian,
Tanitic, and Pelusiac mouths; that the lake Bahr-Belame (or with-
out water) is the remains of the ancient course of this river, wherein
are found putrefactions (which incontestibly prove inundations), vege-
tations, and human labours, showing that the soil has been raised by
the course of the river, and by the perpetual fluctuation of the sands
from west to east; that the Nile having at a certain period acquired '
*nore direction to the north than to the north-west as before, preci-
pitated itself into the gulph which we have just supposed, there
forming marshes, and at last the Delta. From this hypothesis -it
would follow, that the first labours of the ancient Egyptians, such as
the lake Maris (now lake Bathen), and the first dykes were only *
made to retain part of the waters of the inundation, in order, there-
by, to irrigate tlie province of Arsinoe, which threatened to become
barren ; and that subsequently, the lake Maris, or Bathen, no longer

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. ]}

leap, oaneLs, and baggage: yoo have captured all the
fo^iBed posts . which feeoure the wells of the desert, and

receiving water enough, nor being able from iU situation to water
the province of Fai'um, the river was obliged to be taken higher up, and
the canal Jusef was dug, which, doubtless, bears the name of the
caliph who ordered this noble work : but at the same time fearing
that Faium would remain permanently inundated, this prince raised,
from, time to time, new dykes upon the old, such as we now see, and
dug the two canals of Boueke and Zaoyeh to retarn the superfluity of
the flpod back into the river.

When we enjoy quiet possession of the couutry we shall probably
make observations on all the different levels, and on the labours of
the ^Egyptians at various periods ; we may thus ascertain facts, in-
stead of forming conjectures, and show how much the Egyptians have
at all times attended to the distribution of the waters, and how even
at periods of barbarism they have preserved some of their ancient
sagacity. After this, if the Nile should still continue to lean to the
right, and to increase as it has already done, the branch of DamleUa
at the expense of that of Kosetta; if at least it should abandon the
latter, as it has successively left the channels of the dry river and the
branch of Canopus ; if it should leave the lake of Berelos and empty
itself entirely into that of Menzaleh, or form new branches and new
lakes at the eastern part of Pelusium ; in fine, if nature, always more
- powerful in the end than the resistance of man, has condemned the
Delta to become an arid soil, the inhabitants will follow the Nile in Its
course, and always find on its banks that abundance which is pro-
duced by its beneficent waters.

Our first employment, after the departure of Desaix, was to recon-
noitre the country, and make a progress through it, to levy contribu-
tions : we visited the villages which border the opening at Faium,
half a league to the west of Benesuef. We then crossed the canal ;
and, after a march of two hours, arrived at Davalta, a fine village, or
rather a beautiful country ; for, in Egypt, when nature is charming, it
is so in spite of all that men can add to it, or of the detractors of Sa-
vary, who have quarrelled so much with bis luxurious descriptions*
Nature here produces spontaneously groves of palms, under which
flourish the orange tree, the sycamore, opuntia, banana, acacia, and
pomegranate ; trees that form groups of the finest mixture of foliage and
verdure ; and, when these delightful thickets are surrounded, as far as
the eye can reach, with fields covered with, ripe dourra, with mature
sugar-canes, with fields of wheat, flax, and trefoil, which spread a
downy carpet over the land, as the inundation retires ; when, in the
months of our European winter, we have before our eyes this rich
prospect of spring, which promises the abundance of summer, wc
may well say with that traveller, that nature has organized this country
in a most astonishing manner, and that there only want woody hilts,
with brooks flowing down their declivities, and a government which
would render the people industrious, and prevent the incursions of
the Bedouins, to lender it the best and most beautiful soil on the
face of the earth.

Digitized by

Google

12 THE LIFE OF

dispersed, in the district of Mount Thabor, those swarm*
tof brigands, collected from all parts of Asia, in the hope
of sharing the plunder of Egypt.

Id crossing the rich tract which I have just described, where the
eye discovers twenty villages at once, we arrived at Dindyra, where
we stopped for the night. The pyramid of Hilahun, situate at the
entrance of Faium, seems like a fortress raised to command this pro-
vince. Can this be the pyramid of Mendes? May not the canal of
fiathen, which passes by it, be the lake Moeris formed by the hand of
man, as Herodotus a*hd Diodorus conjecture? For the lake Birket-el-
Kerun, which is the Moeris of Strabo and Ptolemy, can never be re*
garded as anything but the work of nature. Accustomed as we are
to the gigantic labours of the Egyptians, we can never persuade our-
selves that they can have hollowed out a lake like that of Geneva.
All that ancient historians and geographers tell us of the lake Moeris*
is doubtful and obscure ; it is evidently seen that their accounts were
dictated by the college of priests, who were always jealous of every
thing that related to their country, and could the more easily have
thrown a veil of mystery over this province, as it was situated beyond
the common road of travellers. Hence we have had from them the
story of an artificial lake three hundred feet in depth, of a pyramid
raised in the middle of it, of a palace of a hundred chambers to feed
crocodiles in, and, in short, of stories as fabulous as any in the history
of man, and the most incredible part of the remains of Egyptian an*
tiquity. But to reason from what actually exists, we find that there
is, in truth, a canal here, that of Bathen, which was flooded when we
visited it, as we approached it in different directions ; that the pyra-
mid of Hilahun may well be that of Mendes, which was built at* the
extremity of this canal, supposed to be the lake Moeris ; that the lake
Birket -el-Rerun, on the contrary, is a pool of water, which must
always have existed, and whose bed must have been formed by the
motion of the soil, which is carried up and renewed every year by the
superfluity of the inundation of Faium, and its waters may have be-
come brackish at a time when the waters of the Nile ceased to flow
through the valley of the dry river. The proofs of this opinion are,
the forms of the different parts, the existence of the bed of a river
extended to the sea, but now dry, its depositions and incrustations,
the depth of the lake, its extent, its bearing towards the north on a
chain of hills, which run east and west, and turn off towards the north-
west, sloping down to follow the course of the valley of the dry chan-
nel ; likewise the natron lakes; and, more than all the other proofs, '
the form of the chain of mountains at the north of the pyramid which
shuts the entrance of the valley, and appears to be cut perpendicu-
larly, like almost all the mountains at the foot of which the Nile flows
at the present day : all these offer to the view a channel left dry, and
its several remains.

The ruins which are found near the town of FaYum, are doubtless
those of Arsinoe. I have not seen them, nor those which are at the
west side of the lake near the village of Kasr-Kerun ; but the plan of
them shows only a few rooms, and a portico decorated with some
hieroglyphics.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 13

** The thirty ships which, twelve days since, you saw
enter the port of Acre with troops, were destined for an

The pyramid of Hilahun, the most shattered of all the pyramids
which I have seen, is also that which is built with the least magnifi-
cence. It is constructed of masses of calcareous stones, serving as
points of support to heaps of unbaked bricks ; but, perishable as this
kind of building is, and perhaps more ancient than the pyramids of
Memphis, it still holds together; so favourable is the climate of
Egypt to these monuments, which endure for ages here, but would
fall to pieces exposed to the rigour of a single European winter.

There are some unlucky moments, when every thing one does is
followed by danger or accident. As I returned from this journey
hack to Benesuef, the general charged me with carrying an order to
the head of the column ; I galloped on to execute it, when a soldier
who was marching out of his rank, turning suddenly to the left, as I
was passing to tne right, presented his bayonet at me, and, before
1 could avoid it, I was unhorsed by the blow, whilst he at the same
time was thrown down. " There is one savant less," said he, while
falling, (for with them every one who was not a soldier was a savant)
but some piastres which I had in my pocket received the point of the
bayonet, and I escaped with only a torn coat. When arrived at the
head of the column, I found the aid-du-camp Rapp ; we were well
mounted, and had got before the infantry; it was at the'close of the
evening, and, being near the tropic, we had but little twilight, as in
these regions darkness immediately follows sun-set. The Bedouins
Infested the country, and we saw some moving spots on the plain
before us, which was very extensive. Rapp said to me, " We should
hot be here, let us either return to the column, or cross the country
and get to Benesuef." I knew that my companion preferred the
boldest measure, so I chose the latter, and we spurred on our horses,
braving the Bedouins, who are always abroad at this time: our ride
was long, we increased our speed, and at last my horse ran away with
me, and it was quite dark when I arrived under the intrenchments of
Benesuef. 1 thought that I could continue on the same road I had

{>asscd in the morning ; my horse stopped, I spurred him, and he
eapt over a trench which had been made that day, and precipitated
me on the other side with my face against a palisade, where I could
neither advance nor retreat. At this time the sentinel challenged me,
I did not hear him, and he fired : I called out in French ; he asked
what business I had there, chid me, then turned me out ; and thus the
awkward savant was bayoneted, fired at, upbraided, and sent home,
Hke a truant schoolboy.

On the 10th of December, General Desaix returned from Cairo,
bringing with him twelve hundred cavalry, six pieces of artillery, six
armed djerms, and two or three hundred infantry; which made the
strength of his division amount to three thousand infantry, twelve
hundred cavalry, and eight pieces of light artillery: he was thus pro-
vided with every necessary to pursue, attack, and overcome Murad
Bey, if he would let us come up with him ; and we were all full of
hope and courage. I was perhaps the only one in this army who had

Digitized by

Google

14 THE LIFE OF

attack upon Alexandria; but you compelled tbem to
hasten to the relief of Acre, and several of their stand-

neither glory nor advancement to acquire; but I could not help
priding myself on my activity ; and my self-love was flattered with
marching amidst an army so brilliant with victory, having resumed
my post at the advanced guard, and been the first to quit Toulon.
I therefore marched cheerfully, with the pleasing hope of arriving the
first at Cyene, and of realizing all my projects, and seeing the object
of my journey fulfilled. In fact, the most interesting part of my
travels was just beginning ; I was now going to break up, as it were,
a new country ; to oe the first to see, and to behold without prejudice,
to make researches in a part of the earth hitherto covered with the
▼eil of mystery, and, for two thousand years, shut out from the curi-
osity of Europeans. From the time of Herodotus to the present,
every traveller, following the steps of his predecessor, had rapidly
ascended the Nile, not daring to lose sight of his boat, and only quit-
ting the shore for a few hours to hurry some hundred yards. off, and
visrt with anxiety the nearest objects. For every thing beyond the
vicinity of the river, the oriental histories nave alone been consulted.
Encouraged by the reception which I met with from the commander-
in-chief, and seconded by all the officers, who partook of my zeal for
the arts, I had no other fear than that of wanting time, paper, pencils,
and ability, to take down all the objects of curiosity which presented
themselves: I was now accustomed to night encampments, and could
subsist very well on ammunition biscuit ; I feared nothing from Murad-
Bey, but to see him enter the desert, and to lead us from Benesuef to
Fa i u in, and back from Fa'ium to Benesuef.

We quitted this latter town, December 17th; the spectacle was
very &ut9 and I regretted being too busy myself to be able to make
a sketch of it j our column extended a league in length, and every
thing breathed joy and hope. At the fall of day we were saddened
by the view of an uncultivated land, and a deserted village— how
many melancholy ideas are included in the silence of night, the neg-
lect of culture, and the ruins of the habitations of man ! tyranny
begins this disastrous waste, despair and crime finish it. 1 hus it
happens in Egypt :— when the master of a village has exacted from it
all that it can afford, and the misery of the inhabitants is further
reduced to extremity by fresh demands, the villagers in despair
oppose force to force; they are then treated as open rebels, each
party has recourse to arms, and if the inhabitants, in defending them-
selves, have the misfortune to kill any one of their tyrants, or bis
satellites, they have no other resource than flight to save their lives,
and theft to support them : men, women, and children, blotted out
from society, and roving from place to place, become the terror of
their neighbours, only appear furtively in their own native habita-
tions, which they convert into dens of robbers, alarming those who
would succeed them in their retreats of misery. Thus whole villages,
when become the asylum of crime, offer no other view to the passen-
ger than deserted fields, ruins, silence, and desolation.
We arrived at El-Bcrankah an hour before night, and quitted it

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. j|5

ardi Will contribute to adorn your triumphal entry into
Egypt.

at day-break the next morning; we breakfasted at Bebeh, a con-
siderable tillage, which bat nothing remarkable, except that it pos-
sesses the wrist of St. George, a reuc which should recommend it to
every pious son of chivalry. The Arabian chain of hills here
approaches the river so close as to leave only a narrow strip of green
land between the two.

At Miriel Guidi we were delayed by several accidents which hap-
pened to the carriages of our held pieces in getting them over the
canals: we learnt that the Mamelukes were at Fechneh. Whilst
we were waiting under the shade, a criminal came before General
Desaix. Those that brought him said, " he is a thief; he has stolen
some guns from the volunteers, and has been taken in the act." How
much we were surprised to see the robber a boy of twelve years old,
beautiful as an angel, with a large sabre wound in his arm, which he
looked at without emotion. He presented himself to the general,
whom he perceived to be his judge, with an air of firmness and sim-
plicity, and (so great is the charm of native grace) not a person pre-
sent could preserve his anger. He was asked who bid him steal these
funs? " Nobody." What had induced him to do it? "I do not
now ; it was the great God." Had he parents? '« Only a mother,
very poor and blind.* The general told him, if he confessed who
sent him, he should be released; if not, he should be punished as he
deserved. " I have already told you nobody sent me, it was God
alone that put it into my head; then laying hts cap at the feet of the
general, he said, " there is my head, you may cut it off!" Fatal
religion, in which vicious principles and positive laws urge man to
heroism and to wickedness!-—" roor little wretch," said the general,
" let him go." He saw that his sentence was passed ; he looked at
the general, then at the soldier who was leading him off, and, guessing
the meaning of what he could not understand, he parted with a smile
of confidence. Such anecdotes as these give a better insight into the
morals of nations, and the influence of religion and laws, than regular
discussions.

A strange event succeeded to this interesting scene— it was the fall
of rain, it gave us, for a moment, a sensation which recalled Europe
to our minds, and the first soft showers of spring in the midst of
December. Some minutes after we were told, that the Mamelukes
were waiting for us about two leagues off, with an army of peasants.
Every one was immediately on the alert, expecting battle in the even-
ing, or the next day at latest. On approaching Fechneh we dis-
covered a detachment of Mamelukes, who let us approach within half
cannon shot, and then disappeared. We were told that the main body
was at Saste Elsayeneh, a league further off; but our artillery was not
come up, as it was constantly delayed by the canals ; and in spite of
the wish of the general to join the enemy, and attack him even before
we were completely formed in order of battle, we could not set to
Saste till night, when we found that the Mamelukes had quitted it two
hours before. At Saste we learnt that they had got intelligence of
our march at midnight, at the time when the inhabitants were dis-

Digitized by

Google

16 THE LIFE .OF

" Finally, after having, with a handful of men, main-
tained the war daring three months in the heart of Syria,

puting with them concerning the extraordinary impositions which
they demanded ; they immediately thought of nothing but loading
thejr camels, calling us the scourge of God sent to punish their faults,
and in truth they might have used less pious expressions.

They'kindlea fires, which soon went out. We left this place the
19th ot December, at day-break : they had preceded us two hours,
and were three leagues before us. They quitted the Nile in the
direction of their march, passing between Bar- J use f and the desert,
abandoning the richest country in the universe. In this third passage
. I did not hnd the straight canal, as it is marked in all the charts ; but
it is only an actual survey of the levels that can give a knowledge of
the system and regulation of the irrigations, .and of the works to be
respectively attributed to art and to nature in this interesting part of
Egypt. Towards evening we forded the canal Jusef, which, at this
place, appears to be only the receptacle of the flood waters, because
it is the lowest part of the valley, and no where the work of human
industry. But all these questions will be determined by a grand ope-
ration to be performed in time of peace, from which the best way may
be suggested of recovering the advantages of this mysterious canal,
now lost or sunk into neglect. This important work would have fallen
to the lot of General Catlarelli, who was always so ardent in con-
tributing to the public welfare, if death had not deprived the com-
mander-in-chief of his services as a friend, and all Egypt of a bene-
factor.

From a simple inspection of these different levels, I should be dis-
posed to believe, that this part of Egypt has become lower than the
elevated banks of the Nile, and that after the general inundation, the
drainings of the water all collect in Hhis spot. I have since seen in
Upper Egypt the effect of the filtration which here occurs ; the
waters having in this country neither canals nor valleys through which
they can be carried off after the inundation, the entire mass pene-
trates the whole depth of the vegetable soil, and at the bottom it
meets with a bed of clay, which it cannot pass, but returns to the river
by small streamlets, when the fall of the flood has sunk it below the
surface of this bed of clay. May not the oasis be ascribed to a
similar operation of nature ?

We here saw some bustards: they were smaller than those of
Europe, as is the case with every animal common to the two con-
tinents. We were now approaching the desert, which was also
advancing to us, for, as the ancient Egyptians expressed it, the desert
is the tyrant Typhon, who is constantly invading Egypt. The moun-
tains were still two leagues off, and we were at the edge of the plain
which forms a border between the deserts and the cultivated country.
Whilst we were halting, we received Intelligence that the Mamelukes
were engaged with our advanced guard : but news is fabricated by
the advanced guard of an army for the main body, as well as by one
quarter of Pans for the other ; however, as even reports of this kind
are not to be neglected, we halted for the night near the village of
Benachie, in a fine wood of palm-trees.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. ]7

token forty pieces of cannon, fifty stands of colours, six
thousand prisoners, and rased or. destroyed the fortifica-

Oii the 90tb, at day-break, we continued our route, in tbe constant
hope of reaching the enemy • we learnt that he had marched all
night: the artillery delayed our- progress, and constantly required
some- little stop ; .whilst the Mamelokes, .unincumbered by heavy

Suns, had the desert . before then, in the midet of which they could
efy our eagerness. We attempted, however, to enter it, and pre-
sently our draught horses were knocked up: however, we arrived by
this route at Benesech, where, fortunately for me tbe army baited.

Benesech was built on the- ruins of the ancient Oxyrinchus, the
capital; of • the thirty-third nome, or province of Egypt. Nothing,
however, remains of this city but' some fragments of stone pillars,
marble columns in the mosques* and a single column left standing,
along with its capital, and part of the entablature, which show that it
is the fragment ot a portico of the composite order. It was not with-
out some danger that I arrived here alone, half an hour before the
division ; but it would have been attended with still greater risk to have
remained behind ; I therefore had only time to take a general view,
on horseback of tbe desolate country. This solitary monument
brings a melancholy sensation to the mind ; Oxyrinchus, once a me-
tropolis, surrounded by a fertile plain* two leagues off the Lybian
range of hills, has disappeared beneath the sand; and the new town
has been obliged to retreat from this desolating invasion, leaving to
its ravages house after house, and the inhabitants must at last be,
driven beyond the canal Jusef, on the border of which they will still
be menaced. This fine canal seemed to offer to our sight its ver-
dant banks, in order to console us for the prospect of the desert which
lav before our eyes, a desert which presents such a gloomy idea to
all who have once beheld it-— a boundless horiaon of barrenness, which
oppresses the mind by immensity of distance, and whose appearance,
where level, is only a dreary waste; and where broken by hills,
merely shows another feature of decay and decrepitude, whilst the
silence of inanimate nature reigns throughout undisturbed*

I remained absorbed in the melancholy inspired by the scene be-
fore my eves, when I sew Desaix in the same attitude with myself,
penetrated with similar sensations* f* My friend,9' said he, «' is not

*"e ; every thing'
melancholy or

this an error of nature ? Nothing here receives life ; every thing-
appears to be placed fop the purpose of inspiring with melancholy or
dread * it would seem as if Providence, after having provided abun-
dantly for the necessities of the three other parts of the world, sud-
denly stopped here for want of materials, and abandoned it to its
original barrenness." " Is it not rather," I replied, " the decrepitude
of the most anciently inhabited part of the globe ? Has not the abuse
which men have made of the gifts of nature reduced it to. this state ?"
In this desert there are rallies, and petrified wood ; tliere have, there-
fore* been rivers and forests; these last have been destroyed, and
after this have disappeared the dew, the mist, the rain, tbe rivers,
and with them all animated beings.
We found in the mosques of Benesech, a number of columns of

VOL. II.— 16. D

Digitized by

Google

18 THE LIFE OF

#
tions of Gaza, Jaffa, Caiffa, and Acre, we prepare to
retqrn to Egypt, where the approaching season for land-
ing imperiously calls for oar presence.

different marbles, no doubt the spoils of old Oxyrinchus, but which
were not of the style of ancient Egypt.

We returned, following the course of the canal, which in this part
resembles our river Le Marne. Some time after, we saw a consider-
able explosion, but heard no noise following ; we thought it was a
signal ; however, the day but one after, we learnt that a part of the
powder of the Mamelukes had taken fire* We also seized a convoy of
eight hundred sheep, which, I believe, without much difficulty, we per-
suaded ourselves belonged to the enemy, and in the evening it consoled
our troops for the fatigues of the day. We arrived at Elsack too late to
save the village from being pillaged : in a quarter of an hour there re-
mained nothing in the houses, literally nothing : the Arab inhabitants
had tied into the fields ; we invited them back, they answered coldly :
"' Why should we return to our houses, are not the deserts now as good
as our own homes ?" We had nothing to reply to this laconic answer.
Nothing interesting happened during the next day : we found the
lake Bathen as serpentine as that of Jusef ; but we must wait, for an
actual survey of those canals to be able to form any rational conjec-
ture on the ancient system of irrigation, till which time all our rea-
sonings would be precipitate, and our assertions illusory. We slept
at Tata, a large village inhabited by Copts ; and an Arab chief, who
bad joined Murad Bey, had left at our disposal a large house and
mattresses, on which we passed a delicious night, for we could very
rarely be lodged so commodiously.

The next day, December 22d, we crossed fields of peas and beans
already in pod, and barley in flower. At noon we arrived at Mynyeh,
a large and handsome town, in which there had formerly been a tem-
ple dedicated to Anubis. I found no ruins, but handsome columns of
granite in the large mosque, which were Well cut out, and had a very
line astragal : 1 know not whether they had formed part of the temple
of Anubb, but they were certainly of a date posterior to that of the
temples of high antiquity in Egypt, which I afterwards saw in my
travels.

The Mamelukes had quitted the town of Mynyeh, and were near
being surprised by our cavalry, who entered it some hours after.
They had been obliged to abandon five vessels armed with ten pieces
of cannon and a mortar ; besides which, they had buried two others,
that were shown us by several Greek deserters who came to join us. .
Mynyeh was the handsomest town we had yet seen ; it had good
streets, substantial houses very well situated, and the Nile flowing
through a large and cheerful channel.

From Mynyeh to Come-eUCasar, where we slept, the country is
more rich and abundant than any that we had hitherto travelled over,
and the villages so numerous and contiguous to each other, that, from
the middle of the plain, I reckoned twenty-four around me ; they
were not rendered gloomy by heaps of ruins, but planted with trees
so thickly interwoven, that they reminded me of the descriptions
which travellers have given us of the islands in the Pacific Ocean.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. |0

" A few days longer might give yon the hope of taking
the Pacha in his palace; but, at. this season, the castle

The following morning, at eleven, we were between Antinoe and
Hermopolis. 1 bad not much curiosity to visit the former of these
places ; as I bad already seen the monuments of the age of Adrian,
and the buildings of this emperor in Egypt could not present to me
any thing very new or striking ; but I was eager to go to Hermopolis,
where I Knew there was a celebrated portico ; it was, therefore, with
great satisfaction I heard Desaix inform me, that he should take three
hundred cavalry, and make an excursion to Achnusuin, whilst the
infantry were marching to. Melaiei.

While approaching the eminence on which is built the portico of
Hermopolis, I saw its outline in the horizon, together with its gigantic
features. We crossed the canal of Abu-Assi, and soon after, passing
across mountains and ruins, reached this beautiful monument, a relic
of the highest antiquity.

I was enchanted with delight on thus seeing the earliest fruit of my
labours ; for, excepting the pyramids, this was the first monument
which gave me an idea of ancient Egyptian architecture ; the first
stones that I had seen, preserving their original destination, with-
out being altered or deformed by the works of modern times, which
had remained untouched for four thousand years, and reminded me
of the immense range and high perfection to which the arts had ar-
rived in this country. A peasant who should issue from his cottage,
and be placed before such a building as this, would believe that there
must exist a wide difference between himself and the beings who were
afrle to construct it ; and without having any idea of architecture, be
would say, this is the work of a god, a man could not dare to inhabit
it. Is it the Egyptians who have invented and brought to perfection
such a beautiful art? This is a question 1 am unable to answer ; but
even on a first glimpse of this edifice we may pronounce, that the
Greeks never devised nor executed any thing in a grander style.

Among the nillocks, within three or four hundred yards of the
portico, enormous blocks of "stone appear half buried in sand, and
regular architecture beneath them, which appear to form an edifice
containing columns of granite, just rising above the present level of
the soil. Further on, but still connected with the scattered fragments
of the great temple of Hermopolis, I have just described, is built a
mosque, containing a number of columns of cipoline marble of mid- ~
dling size, and retouched by the Arabs j then comes the large village
of Achmunin, peopled by about fi\e thousand inhabitants, to whom
we were as great an object of curiosity as their temple had been
to us.

We slept at Melaui, within half a league of the road from Achmunin.
But methinks I . hear the reader exclaim, " What do you quit Her*
mopolis already, after having fatigued me with long descriptions of
monuments of little note ; and now you pass rapidly over what might
interest me : Where is the hurry? are you not with a well informed
general, who loves the arts, and have you not three hundred men with
you ?" .All this is very true, but such are the necessary events of this

Digitized by

Google

20 THE LIFE OF

of Acre is not wttk the loss of those days ; nor of those
brave soldiers who would consequently fall; and are nowi
necessary for more essential services.

journey, and such the lot of the traveller: the general, whose inten-
tions are very good, but whose curiosity is soon satisfied, says to the
artist, " I have three hundred men here who have been ten hours on
horseback ; they must find shelter for the night, and make their soup
before they go to rest." The artist feels the full force of this, as he is
himself perhaps very weary and hungry, and must share with the rest
in the fatigues of night encampments, and especially as he it every
day twelve or sixteen hours on horseback, as the desert has tired his
sight, and his eyes, burning and smarting, only see dimly through a
veil of blood.

Melaui is larger and still more beautiful than Mynyeh ; its streets
are straight, and its bazar very well built ; there is here a very large
house belonging to the Mamelukes, which it would be easy to fortify.

We entered the place late ; I had lost time in going' up and
down the town, and seeking out for quarters ; I was lodged without
the walls, and before a handsome house which appeared very com-
modious ; the owner was sitting at his ease before his door, and seeing
one lying down on the outside, he beckoned me into a chamber, where
I found General Beliard, who had already taken advantage of his: hos-
pitality. 1 was hardly asleep when I was awakened by an intolerable
restlessness, which 1 took to be the beginning of an inflammatory fever ;
but after remaining a long time in this state of agitation, I found my
companion as ill off' as myself, and we both started up, left the
room, and looking at each other by moonlight, our skins were
red, inflamed, and our features hardly distinguishable ; and, on fur-
ther examination, we found ourselves covered with vermin of every
description.

These mansions in Upper Egypt are nothing but vast pigeon houses,
in which the owner only reserves to himself a room or two for his own
use, and there be lodges along with poultry of all kinds, and the
vermin they engender between them, which is a part of his daily em-
ployment to hunt for, but at night the toughness of his skin defies their
bites; and thus ourAiost, who intended to do us a civility, coulJ not
conceive the reason of our quitting hitn so abruptly. We got rid as
well as we could of the most troublesome of these intruderss, vowing
never again to take advantage of such hospitality.

On the ensuing day, December 24th, we continued our pursuit of
the Mamelukes ; they always kept about four leagues distant, -and
we could never gain ground upon them. In their march they ra-
vaged as much as they could, the country which they kept between us.
Towards tbe-cvening we saw a deputation with a flag of alliance com-
ing up to our camp. It was a party of Christians, from whom the
"Mamelukes had demanded a requisition of a hundred camels, and
these poor wretches not having it in their power to comply with the
demand, the enemy had barbarously killed sixtyof- their people. Tbey
in return, highly exasperated, had slam eight of the Mamelukes,
whose beads they offered to bring us. They all spoke at once,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 21

' " Soldiers,— we have yet a toilsome and perilous task
to perform. After having, daring this campaign, secured

repeating perpetually the same expressions, but fortunately for our
ears, the audience was given in a field of lucerne, which offered a
seasonable refreshment to the deputation, who began to devour
the crop greedily, as if it were a dainty which they were afraid of
losing. >

We slept at Elgansanier, where we were very well lodged in a saii-
ton's tomb.

The next day, December 25th, we were marching over Mount
Falut, when we learned that the Mamelukes were at Beneadi, to
which place we immediately directed our course, in hopes of coming
up with them. Partaking of the eagerness of all around me, I was
full of joy when we received any tidings of the Mamelukes, without
reflecting that I had no reason for animosity or revenge against them,
and that as they had not injured the remains of antiquity, which was
my harvest, I had no cause of complaint against them. If they had
acquired unfairly the soil which we were treading, at least it was not
for us to make any objectious : their rights were sanctioned by several
centuries of possession ; but the preparations for a battle present so
much bustle and activity, and altogether form such a striking scene,
while the event is of so much importance to all concerned, that the
mind has but little room left for moral reflections ; success becomes
the only object, for the game has so high a stake that no one chooses
to relinquish it.

But when arrived at Beneadi our hopes were once more deceived ;
we only found some Arabs, whom our cavaldry chased into the desert.
Beneadi is a rich village, about half a league in length, advantageously
situated for the trade of Darfur, which is carried on by caravans, pos-
sessing an abundant territory, and a population numerous enough to
compel the Mamelukes to enter into some composition for their levies,
and not to allow them to seize it as plunder. We also found it pru-
dent to temporise with them for the present, especially as the
advances they made were offered somewhat in the manuer of con-
ditions ; this insolence we thought proper to pass over under an
appearance of cordiality. Surrounded by Arabs whom they do
not in the least fear, as they supply those freebooters with their
articles of the first necessity, and consequently can dispose of their
services, the inhabitants of Beneadi enjoy an influence in the province
which would render them an object ot embarrassment to any govern-
ment whatsoever ; they came forth to meet us, and reconducted us out
of their territory, without either party being at all tempted to pass
the night in the same place. We slept at Benisanet.

On the 26th, before we got to Siut, we found a large bridge, with a
lock, and floodgates, in order to retain the waters of tne Nile after the
inundation; these Arabian works made doubtless from ancient
models, are as useful as well contrived ; and, in general, it appeared to
me, that the distribution of the waters in Upper Egypt for irrigation
was ordered with more intelligence and effected by simpler meajis
than throughout the lower provinces.

Digitized by

Google

22 THE LIFE OF

ourselves from attacks from the eastward, it will, perhaps,
be necessary we *hoold repel efforts made from the west*
You will9 in that case, have new opportunities of acquir
iog glory ; and if engaged in so many encounters, each
day is marked 'by the death of a brave oonjrade, fresh
soldiers will come forward, and supply the ranks of that
select number, which best gives an irresistible impulse in
the moment of danger, and commands victory."

On the 20th of May, at nine in the evening, [he generate
was beat, and the siege, which had lasted sixty days, after
the opening of the trenches, was raised.

We find, from the Journal of Compte Las Cases, that,
speaking of St. Jean d'Acre, Napoleon expressed him-
self in the following manner : >0 If I had taken St. Jean
" d'Acre, a complete revolation vould have been effected
" in the East. The most insignificant circumstances are
" productive of the greatest events. The timidity of the
" captain of a frigate who continued in open sea instead
" of forcing his passage into the port ; and some mis-
" understanding that occurred between the comman*
" ders of several smaller vessels, prevented a com-
" plete change taking place in the order of things as
" established on the face of the globe. Saint Jean d'Acre
" once secured, the French army would have proceeded
" to Damascus and Aleppo, from whence, in a very short
" time, it would have appeared on the banks of the Eu-
" phrates ; the Christians of Syria and of Armenia would
" have joined our forces, and the whole population of
" those countries must have been shaken." One of us,
says the Compte Las Cases, having remarked that the
army might soon have been reinforced with an hundred
thousand men, Napoleon replied, " Rather say six
" hundred thousand, for who can form an estimate upon
" that head ? I would have gained Constantinople and
" the Indies ; and a change in the existing state of the
" world would thus have been accomplished."

On another occasion, says the Compte, Napoleon,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. %&

kk reference to Saint Jean d'Acre, spoke to the following
effect : " It was, however, very audacious to have
" marched into the centre of Syria with only twelve thou-
" sand men. I was five hundred leagues distant from
" General Desauc, who headed the other extremity of
" my army. Sidney Smith stated that I had lost eighteen
" thousand men before St Jean d'Acre, whereas my
" whole foroe amounted only to twelve thousand troops.
" Had I been master of the ocean I would have con-
" quered the East, which was so feasible that, nothing
" prevented the result, but the stupidity or improper
" conduct of some nautical men.

44 Volney, when journeying in Egypt, prior to the
" Revolution, stated, that the occupation of that terri-
" tory could only be compassed by three great wars :
" that is to say ; with England, the Grand Signior, and
44 the natives : the latter appearing, above all, the most
" arduous enterprise. He was, however, in the wrong,
" as we found it no difficult matter ; nay, we had even
" rendered the inhabitants our friends, and made their
" cause our own.

" A mere handful of French, As I may say, had suf*
" ficed to conquer that beautiful country, which they
" ought never to have lost ! We had, indeed, accom-
44 plished prodigies in war and in policy ! Our under*
" taking had no reference whatever to the crusades :
" the crusaders were without number, and imbued with
" fanaticism ; my army, on the contrary, was small and
44 the soldiers so unfavourable to the enterprise, that they
" were frequently tempted, in principle, to carry off their
" standards and march back. I succeeded at length in
" reconciling them to the country, which abounded in
" every thing, and was so cheap, that I was, for a moment,
" tempted to reduce them to half pay, and lay by the
" other moiety as a reserve. I had acquired such empire
44 over them, that a simple order of the day would have

Digitized by LjOOQIC

34 THE LIFE OF

" been sufficient to make them all embrace Mabometaa-
"ism. They would only have laughed at the idea; the
" natives would have been reconciled, and the Christian's
" of the East would have believed their canse accom-
" plisbed, they would have approved such conduct, think*
" ing that we could not do better for us and for them-
c* selves.

** The English shuddered at the idea of our occupying
" Egypt, because we thereby displayed to Europe the
" only means of depriving them of India. They are by
" no means satisfied, even to the present moment ; and
" they are in the. right. If forty or fifty thousand Euro-
" peari families should once establish their industry, their
" laws, and their administration in Egypt, India will be
" lost to Great Britain, much more by the influence of
" things than the mere force of arms/'

The division of General Lannes began its march for
Tentoura; it was followed by the baggage of the army,
and the artillery of General Bon's division. The divi-
sion of General Kleber, and the cavalry, took their re-
spective positions ; the infantry in the rear of the bead of
the trenches, and the cavalry in front of the bridge thrown
across the river of Acre, at the distance of fifteen hun-
dred toises from the fortress. Immediately after, the di-
vision of General Begnier, which was intrenched, filed off
in the greatest silence ; their tield -pieces were drawn by
the men, and at once followed the route of the army.
The out-posts were ordered into the works ; the division
of General Regnier, which halted at the termination of
the trenches proceeded to the camp for their baggage,
and then followed the march of the army. When they
had passed the bridge, General Kleber's division began
to move ; it was followed by the cavalry, who had orders
not to quit their station near the river, until two hours
after the last body of the infantry had marched off; they,
however, left one hundred dismounted dragoons to protect

Digitized by

Google

N A POISON BONAPARTE. 26

the workmen employed in destroying the two bridges.
General Junot, with his corps, had proceeded to the mill
of Kerdanna, to cover the left wing of the army.

The siege would have been raised in the day-time, had
not the route, for more than three leagues, led along the
sea-coast, which would have afforded the enemy an oppor-
tunity of annoying the French with their gun- boats during
that period of their march. The' besieged continued
their fire throughout the night as usual, and did not per-
ceive till next day that the siege was raised ; they had,
however, suffered so much that they made no movement
to follow. The Inarch was conducted with the greatest
order ; on the 21st of May the French arrived at Ten-
toura, the port at which were landed the articles sent
for the use of the army from Damietta and Jaffa, and also
the battering cannon, as well as the forty large Turkish
field-pieces taken at Jaffa, and of which only a part bad
been forwarded to Acre. As they had not a sufficient
number of horses to draw this immense quantity of Turk-
ish artillery, Bonaparte determined that all the means
he possessed of transporting by sea should be preferably
employed in removing the sick and wounded. In con-
sequence, he resolved to carry with him but two howitzers
and some light pieces of the Turkish artillery, the remain-
der, abont twenty-two, were thrown into the sea, their
carriages and caissons being previously burned at Ten-
toura. All the sick and wounded were sent on to Jaffa ;
generals, officers, and administrators, all cheerfully lent
their horses for that service : not one Frenchman was left
behind, even those affected by the plague were removed.*

* After the siege of Saint Jean D' Acre had been raised, Napoleon
was given to understand that the horses employed in transporting the
sick were not sufficiently numerous to effect the purpose, as a great
many had been wounded. No sooner had he acquired this informa-.
tion than, springing from the saddle, he caused the whole of his suite
to dismount on the instant, commanding every horse to be despatched
for the use of the sick and wounded, the general and his suite per-

VOL. II. — 16. E

Digitized by

Google

26 THE LIFE O*

On the 22d, the army lay at the rains of Cesarea ; on the
following day, a party of Naplousians appeared near the
port of Abouhaboora, some of them were taken and shot,
the rest fled ; their object was to plunder the stragglers
abont the army in their march. On the 23d, the French
encamped within four leages of Jaffa, near a small river.
Detachments were ordered against some villages in the
neighbourhood, the inhabitants of which had, daring the
siege of Acre, attacked and plundered the convoys, and
massacred the escorts; these villages were burned, as
weH as the surrounding crops, and the cattle carried off.
This vengeance was not only called for upon the heads of
the assassins, but authorised by the rigorous laws of war,
which allow of depriving the enemy of all means of sub-
sistence. On the 24th, the army arrived at Jaffa ; a bridge
of boats had been thrown over the river of Lahoya, as a
ford near its entrance could not be passed without great
difficulty. The 25th, 26th, and 27tb, the army remained
at Jaffa; the time was employed in punishing the inha-
bitants of the adjacent villages for their criminal conduct,
and in destroying the fortifications at Jaffa, while all the
iron cannon in the place were thrown into the sea. From
this town part of the wounded were sent off in vessels ;
the French, however, having but a small number of ships
for that purpose, the forwarding those who were to pro-
ceed by land caused some delays, so that the army could
not march before the 28th. The first and second batta-
lions of the sixty-nintb, and the twenty-second light infan-
try, departed successively to escort the convoys by land.

Being now upon the subject of Jaffa, it becomes our
duty to break in upon the regular thread of the narrative,
in order to investigate the long accredited tale of Napo-

forming a three days1 march o» foot over the burning sands of the
desert. What a complete refutation is this single trait, of the infamous
aspersions at one time accredited, in respect to the conduct pursued
towards his suffering troops in the hospitals of Jaffa?

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 27

few's baying caused poison to be administered to Us
diseased soldiers.

This circumstance detailed, in the firs! instance, by Si*
Robert Wilson, who has since retracted the assertion, is
now proved to be completely erroneous ; but, as a great
number of onr readers may not be in possession of the
necessary proofs, we proceed to insert them : not only
veracity demands these statements, bat. they are. due to
the memory of the extraordinary hero to. whom they relate*
Qn this momentous subject Bonaparte tbos expressed
himself: —

" Previous to leaving Jaffa, and after the greatest
number of the sick and wounded had been embarked, it
was reported to me that there were some men in the
hospital so dangerously ill as not to be able to be moved.
I immediately ordered the chiefs of the medical staff to
consult together upon what was best to be done, and to
give me their opinion on the subject. Accordingly they
met, and found that there were seven or eight men so dan*
gerously ill that they conceived it impossible for them to
recover ; and also that they could not exist much longer ;
that moreover, being afflicted with the plague, they would
spread the contagion amongst ail tboqe who approached
them. Some of the soldiers, who were sensible, per-
ceiving that they were about to be abandoned, demanded,
with earnest entreaties, to be put to death. Larrey was
of opinion that recovery was impossible, and that those
poor fellows could not exist many hours; but as they
inight live long enough to be alive when the Turks
entered, and experience the dreadful torments which they
were accustomed to inflict upon their prisoners, he thought
it would be an act of charity to comply with their desires,
ami accelerate their end by a few hours. Desgenettes did
not approve of this, and replied, that his profession was
to cure the sick, and not to despatch them. Larrey came
to me immediately afterwards, informed me of the cir-
cumstances, and of what Desgenettes had said ; adding,

Digitized by

Google

28 THE LIFE OF

that perhaps Desgenettes was right. ' Bat/ con tinned
Larrey, ' those men cannot live for more than a few
hoars, twenty-four, or thirty-six at most ; and if yon will
leave a rear-gaard of oevalry to stay and protect them
from advanced parties, it will be sufficient/ Accord-
ingly I ordered four or five hundred cavalry to remain
behind, and not to quit the place until all were dead.
They did remain, and informed me that the whole had ex-
pired before they left the town ; but I have since heard that
Sir Sidney Smith found one or two alive when he entered,
the place. This is the truth of the business.* Wilson

• Sir Robert had a son among the young midshipmen on board the
Northumberland, in her passage to St. Helena, and my son, (says
Count Las Cases,) whose similarity of age occasioned him to be much
in the society of these youths, could easily observe the change which
took place in their opinions with respect to us. They were at first very
much prejudiced against us. When the Emperor came on beard,
they regarded him as an Ogre ready to devour them. But, on a
better acquaintance with us, truth soon exercised over them the same
influence which it produced on the rest of the crew. This was, how-
ever, at the expense of young Wilson, who was scouted by his com-
panions, by way of expiation for the stories which his father had cir-
culated.

I had collected numerous offensive statements from the writings of
Sir Robert Wilson, to which I had perhaps replied with too much
bitterness; a recent circumstance has induced me to suppress this
portion of my journal.

Sir Robert Wilson has lately acted a conspicuous part in a cause
which does honour to the hearts of all who were concerned in it : I
allude to the saving of Lavalette. Being asked before a French tribu-
nal, whether he had not formerly published works respecting our
affairs? he replied in the affirmative, and added, that he had stated in
them what he then believed to be true. These words are more to the
purpose than any thing I could say ; and therefore I hasten to cancel
what I have already written ; happy in thus having an opportunity of
rendering justice to Sir Robert Wilson, on whose sincerity and good
intentions I had, in my indignation, cast reflections. After my remo-
val from Longwood, Sir Hudson Lowe, who had seized my papers,
looked over the journal, with my permission. He, of course, met
•with parts which were very displeasing to him ; and he said to me,
" What a pretty legacy you are preparing/or my children, Count !"
— ff That is not my fault," replied I, "it depends only on yourself
to render it otherwise ; I shall be happy to have reason to strike out
any thing respecting you, as I ilid the other day with regard to Sir
Robert Wilson. Upon which he asked me what I had written about
Sir Robert, and I pointed out the place. After reading all that had
been written, and hearing my reasons for cancelling it, he said, with a

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 20

himself, I dare say, now knows that he was mistaken.
Sydney Smith never asserted it. I hare no doubt that
this story of the poisoining originated in something said
by Desgenettes, who was a bavard (gossip), which was
• afterwards misconceived or incorrectly repeated. Desge-
nettes/ continued the Emperor, * was a good man, and
notwithstanding he gave rise to this story, I was not
offended, and had him near my person in different cam*
paigne afterwards. Not that I think it wonld have been a
crime, had opium been administered ; on the contrary, I
conceive it would have been a virtue. To leave a few
miserables, who could not recover, in order that they
might be massacred by the Turks with the most dreadful
tortures, as was their custom, would, I think, have been
cruelty. A General ought to act with his soldiers, as he
would wish should be done to himself. Now, would not any
man, under similar circumstances, who had his senses,
have preferred dying easily a few hours sooner, rather*
than expire under the tortures of those barbarians? You
have been amongst the Turks/ said Napoleon to Mr.
O'Meara, ' and know what they are ; place yourself in '
the situation of one of those sick men, and suppose you
were asked which you would prefer, to be left to suffer
the tortures inflicted by those miscreants, or to have
opium administered to you? Mr. O'Meara replied,

thoughtful and mortified air, " Yes, I see *, and he has proved him-
self a warm friend of the Bourbons.

We leaped for joy when we heard of the escape of Lavalette.
Some one observed that his deliverer, Wilson, could not be the same
individual who had written so many offensive things concerning (he
Emperor. " And why not?" said Napoleon. " You know but little
of men, and the passions by which they are actuated. What leads
you to imagine that Sir Robert Wilson is not a man of enthusiasm and
of violent passions, who wrote what he then believed to be true ? And
while we were enemies we contended with each other, but in our pre-
sent adversity he knows better; he may have been abused and
deceived, and may be sorry for it. He is perhaps now as sincere in
wishing us well as he formerly was in seeking to injure tw.— Las
Cases.

Digitized by

Google

3Q THE LIFE OF

' most undoubtedly 1 would prefer the latter.9 ' Certaudy,
so would any man,' answered Napoleon ; • if my own eon,
(and I believe I love my son as well as any father does
his cbild) were in a similar situation with those men, I
would advise it to be done : and if so situated wyself, I
would insist upon it, if I had sense enough, and sufficient
strength to demand it But, however, affair* were not so
pressing as to. prevent me from leaving a party to take
wre of them, which was done. If I had thought such a
ipepaure as that of giving opium necessary, I would have
called a coqnoil of war, have stated the necessity of it,
and have published it in the order of the day. It should
have been no secret.' Do you think that if I had been
capable of secretly poisoning my soldiers (as doing a
necessary action secretly would give it the appearance of
a crime), or of such barbarities as driving, my carriage
over the dead, and the still bleeding bodies of the wounded,
that my troops would have fought for ma with an enthu-
siasm and affection without parallel? No, no; I never
should have done so a second time ! Many would have
shot me while passing. Even some of the wounded, who
bad sufficient strength left to pull the trigger, would have .
despatched me.,

" ' J never,9 continued Napoleon, ' committed a crime
in all my political career. At my last hour I can assert
that. Had I done so, I should not have been here now.
I could have despatched the Bourbons. It only rested
with nie to give my -consent, and they would have ceased
to live.

" ' I have risen to too great a pitch of human glory
and elevation not to have excited the envy and the jea-
lousy of mankind. They will say, ' it is true that he has
raked himself to the highest pinnacle of glory, mats pour
y. arriver, il commit beaucoup de crimes, (but to attain
it, he has committed many crimes)/ Now the fact is,
that I not only never committed any crimes, but 1 never
even thought of doing so. J'ai toujours marche avec Vopi-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 31

nion de grandes masses et hs cvdnmens, (I have always
gone with the opinions of the great mass of the people,
and with events). I have always considered lightly the
opinion of individuals, of that of the public I thought
a great deal ; of what use, then, would crime have been
to me? I am too much a fatalist, and have always
despised mankind too mnch to have had reconrse to
crime to frustrate their attempts. Tax march* toujour*
avec ['opinion d$ cinq ou six millions cThommes, (I have
always marched with the opinion of five or six millions
of men); of what use, then, would crime have been to
ine ? In spite' of all the libels/ continued he, ' I have no
fear whatever about my fame. Posterity will do me
justice. The troth will be known, and the good which
I have done, with the faults which I have committed,
will be oompared. I am not uneasy as to the result. Had
I succeeded, I should have died with the reputation of
the greatest man that ever existed. As it is, although
1 have failed, I shall be considered as an extraordinary
man : my elevation was unparalleled, because unaccom-
panied by crime. I have fought fifty pitched battles,
almost all of which I have gained. I have framed and
carried into effect a code of laws that will bear my name
to the most Temote posterity. From nothing I raised
myself to be the most powerful monarch, in the world.
Europe was at my feet.' "

Baron Larrey,* the principal surgeon on the French

* Of Baron Larrey, the French surgeon, Napoleon gave the fol-
lowing high character:—

" Larrey," said he, to Mr. O'Meare, " was the most honest man,
and the best friend to the soldier that I ever knew. Indefatigable in
his exertions for the wounded, Larrey was seen on the field of battle,
after an action, accompanied by a train of young surgeons, endea-
vouring to discover if any signs of life remained in the bodies. In
the most inclement weather, and at all times of the night and day,
Larrey was to be found amongst the wounded. He scarcely allowed
a moment's repose to his assistants, and kept them continually at their
posts. He tormented the generals, and disturbed them out of their
beds at night whenever he wanted accommodations or assistance for

Digitized by

Google

32 THE LIFE OF

staff, after his return to Europe, published a work, en-
titled, Relation historique et chirurgicale de V Expedition
de TArmie de V Orient en Egypte et en Syrie, which he
dedicated to Bonaparte, as a tribute due to him for the
care and attention he always paid to the sick and wounded
soldiers. Assalini also speaks in high terms of his atten-
tion to the sick, as will be seen by the following pas-
sage:-*" The Commander-in-Chief, Bonaparte, great in
every emergency, braved, on several occasions, the dan-
ger of the contagion. J have seen him in the hospitals
at Jaffa, inspecting the wards, and talking familiarly with
the soldiers attacked by the epidemic fever ; a conduct
which produced the best effect, not only on the spirits of
the sick, but of the whole army. This heroic example
encouraged, at the same time, the hospital attendants,
whom the progress of the disease and the fear of con-
tagion had alarmed considerably.

Comte Las Cases speaking of this eventful transaction
gives the following satisfactory and conclusive statement
in respect to the sick at Jaffa.

" A General, a hero, and a great man, until that period
respected by fortune. as well as by mankind, who rivetted
the attention of two-thirds of the population of the globe,
claiming the admiration even of his enemies, was sud-
denly accused of a crime without parallel : of an inhu-
man, atrocious, and cruel act, and, what is above all
remarkable, of no possible utility.

" Absurd details, circumstances void of all probability,
and the most ridiculous accessaries were added to this
first untruth; it was spread throughout Europe, and
readily believed, the gazettes teemed with the recital ;
books promulgated the account, which was averred for
a fact; so that general indignation succeeded, and the

the wounded or sick. They were all afraid of him, as they knew he
would instantly come and make a complaint to me. He paid court
to none of them, and was the implacable enemy of thefoumisseurs."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 33

olamour became universal/' It is in vain to argue against
a torrent ; to demonstrate the want of proofs ; to prove
that assertions belie themselves, to bring forward unde-
niable witnesses, contradicting snch statements ; nay/ to
produce even the very testimony of those of the pro-
fession said to have administered the poison, or, who
refused their acquiescence with the measure, all was of no
avail. To aver the folly of conceiving that bein^ capable
of inhumanity who had, a short time before, immortalize^
himself, in those very hospitals at Jaffa, by an act truly
sublime and heroic; that of touching in the most so-
lemn manner those attacked by the plague to deceive
and triumph over the imaginations of the sick; how,
we say, could such a mode of conduct be attributed to a
man, who, when consulted by the guardians of heafth,
to know whether the clothing of the infected should
be burned or only washed, alleging the great loss that
would accrue in case the first measure was resorted to-
made for answer : — " Oentlemen, I came hither to rivet
the attention, and calculate the interests of Europe in the
centre of the ancient world, and not to acquire riches.'* It
was futile to endeavour to demonstrate that this sup-
posed crime was without any object or motive whatsoever.
Had the French General cause to apprehend that the sick
would be worked upon, and prompted to league against
him ? Was he anxious by such an act^ to rid himself of the
disease altogether? Were such the case, he might have
succeeded just as well in leaving the infected amidst the
enemy. It would have been vain to demonstrate that an
obdurate and egoist Chief would have completely disen-
cumbered himself by leaving these sufferers behind him;
they would have been mutulated and massacred, it is
true ; no one, however, thought for a moment of reproach-
ing him on that head." All such efforts, I say, would
have been ineffectual ; so potent and infallible are the
effects of falsehood, and the declamation of those who
are the tools of uncontrouled passions. The supposed
vol, n.— 16. r

Digitized by

Google

54 THE LIFE OF

crime wUl yet remain in every mouth ; it will be grayer*
upon the imagination, and for the grand mass of the
people remains for ever a fact undoubted and incontro-
vertibly proved,

" What will astonish those who do not know how
necessary it is to be aware of yielding to public rumour,
and I with pleasure insert the statement to show in what
m&fcner history may be committed to paper, is that the
Grand-Marshal Bertrand, who was himself with the
army of Egypt, being then, indeed, in a subordinate
station, and very far removed from the person of the
General-in-Chief, had himself accredited the account of
the poisoning exercised upon sixty infected soldiers until
his arrival at Saint Helena. The account was spread
and even believed in the army; so that, what answer
could be made to such as triumphantly stated : — " It is
incontestibly true, I have it from the very officers who
formed a part of the expedition." And yet the whole is
false; as I shall now demonstrate from what I have
gathered from the most elevated authority— from the mouth
of Napoleon himself/'

First, the number of the infected consisted only of
seven.

Sicofttffy, it was not the General-in-Chief, but a member
<tf the profession, who, at the moment when the crisis
arrived, proposed the administration of opium.

Thirdly, that the opium was not given to a single
patient

Fourthly, that, the retreat being slowly effected, the
arriere guard was left at Jaffa ; and.

Fifthly, that, when they marched away, the sick had
expired, with the exception of one or two whom the
English found living.

N. B. " Since my return to Paris, from St. Helena/*
any* the Count Las Cases, " having had every facility of
conversing with those who, from their profession, were
the main actors in this affair — those whose depositions

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 35

must by right pass for official and authentic, haying had
the curiosity to examine into the minutest details ; the
following statement is what I collected :" —

" The sick, dependent on the surgeon-in-chief ; that is
to say, the wounded, were all removed from Jaffa, with
the assistance of the horses of the staff, not excepting
those of the General-in-Chief, who, for a long period,
marched on foot with the rest of the army ; consequently,
those are out of the question."

" In regard to the rest, depending on the physician-in-
chief, to the number of about twenty, all in the most
dangerous state, without hope of recovery, and unable to
sustain removal, while the enemy was fast approaching 1
it is true, Napoleon inquired of the doctor, whether it
would not be an act of humanity to administer opium to
them ; nor is it less certain, the answer made by the phy-
sician was, that bis duty consisted in curing and not
filling ; a reply which seemed rather delivered as if an
order had been issued, than merely resulting from com-*
mon discussion, and which may have served as a founda-
tion for malevolence and bad faith to fabricate and disse-
minate the fable which has been so much the theme of
conversation."

" Be this, however, as it may, from the accounts I have
collected, the following has incontestibly proved the
result 2 —

First, no order was issued to administer poison to the
sick at Jaffa.

Secondly, at the period in question there was not a
single grain of opium in the medicine chests of the army
for the use of the sick : and,

Thirdly, bad the order been issoed, and the drug pro*
curable, existing circumstances and the local situations*
which it would be tedious to recapitulate, would Jujve
rendered the execution impossible.

In a pamphlet, published by Viscount Ebpngton, de«
tailing tire conversations between himself and Napoleon,

Digitized by

Google

36 THE LIFE OF

at Porto Ferrajo, in reference to this topic, his Lordship
gives the following statement: —

" He (Napoleon) spoke with apparent pleasure of
Egypt, and described humorously enough his admission,
and that of his army, to Mahometanism, on receiving
from the men of the law, after many meetings and grave
discussions at Cairo, a ^dispensation from being circum-
cised, and a permission to drink wine, under the condi-
tion of their doing a good action after each draught
4 You can hardly imagine,' said be, ' the advantages
which I gained in the country from this adoption of their
cast/ ,1 mentioned Sir. Robert Wilson's statement of
his having poisoned his sick : he answered, * II y a dans
u cela quelque fondement de vrcd.y " In this there is sbme
" foundation in truth ; three or four men of the army
" had the plague : they could not have lived twenty-
" four hours ; I was about to march ; I consulted Desge-
" nettes as to the means of removing them. He said,
" that it must be attended with some risk of infection;
" and would be useless to them, as they were past re-
" covery. 1 then recommended him to give them a dose
" of opium, rather than leave them tq the mercy of the
" Turks. * II me repondit en fort honnete homme, que eon
" mitier itoit de guerir et non de tuer ;' he answered
" me as a truly honest man, that his business was to cure
" and not to kill ; so the men were left to their fate.
" Perhaps he was right, though I asked for them, what
" I should, under similar circumstances, have wished my
" best friend to have done for me. 1 have often thought
" since on this point of morale, and have conversed on it -
" with others, ' et je crois qu'aufondil vaut tovjoitrsmievx
" souffHr qu'un homme finesse sa destine quelle qu'elle $oit ;'
44 and I believe if thoroughly considered, it is always
" better to suffer a man to terminate his destiny, be it
" what it may. I judged so afterwards, in the case of
" my friend Duroc, who, when his bowels were falling
" out before my eyes, repeatedly cried to me to have him

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 37

" pat oat of his misery. ' Je hi dis, je vous plain*, mom
" ami, mats il riy a pas de remide, ilfaut souffrir jus-
" qu'i la Jin.* I said to him I pity you my friend, bat
" there is no remedy ; it is necessary to suffer to the last*
" I then asked him about the massacre of the Turks at
" Jaffa: he answered, • Cest vrai— Jen fi* fusilier dpeu
" pre* deux milk. — Vous trouvez cela un peu fort — mais
44 je bur avois accords une capitulation it El Arish, a con-
44 dition qu'ils retourneroient chez eux. lis Fontrompue
44 et se sont jettes dans Jaffa oil je Us pris par, assaui.
44 Je ne pouvois Us emmener prisonniers dvec mot, car je
44 manquois de pain, et Us ttoient des diables trop dim-
44 gereux pour Us lacker une seconds fois, de sorts que je
44 n9 avois (T autre moyen que de les tuer.' It is true, I*
* caused about two thousand to be shot: — You think that
44 going too far, but I had accorded them a capitulation at*
44 El Arish, on condition that they would return to their
44 homes. They broke this engagement and threw them-
"'selves into Jaffa, where I took them by assault.- I
" coold not march them away prisoners, for I was in
44 want of bread, and the devils were too dangerous to
" give them their liberty a second time ; so that I had no
44 other means left but to despatch them."
' On the 28th of May the army marched from Jaffa ; the
division of General Regnier formed the left column, and-
proceeded by RamI6, the head-qnarters. The divisions
of Generals Bon and Lannes took the central route; the
inhabitants of the country between Jaffa and Gaza had
been guilty of all sorts of excesses ; the general order
given to the columns was to barn the villages as they pro-
deeded, and lay waste the adjacent country. The cavalry
proceeded along the right, parallel- with the coast; they
scoured the downs, and drove in all the cattle that had
there been collected. The division of General Kleber
formed the rear-guard, and did not leave Jaffa till the
90th. In this order the army marched as far as Kan*

Digitized by

Google

38 THE LIFE OF

Jouness; the surrounding plains presented a oontinaed
blaze of fire, bat the recollection of the plunder of the
convoys, and the atrocities exercised against the French,
by the inhabitants of these countries, abundantly justified
this terrible retaliation.

The army encamped on the 29th at El-Majdal, and
arrived the next day at Gaza. The inhabitants of this
town conducted themselves with propriety, their persons
and properties were therefore respected. The fort was
blown up, and, on the 31st, the army proceeded towards
Kan-Jouness, where it arrived the same day. On the
1st of June the French entered upon the desert, followed
by an immense number of cattle, taken from the enemy,
and intended to provision El-Arisb. The desert between
Kan-Jouness and this fortress is about eleven leagues in
extent. It is inhabited by some Arabian brigands, of
whom Bonaparte had much to complain; the troops
burned their camps, brought away their cattle and camels,
and destroyed the small harvests that were collected in
some parts of the desert. On the 2d the army halted at
El-Arish, a post of considerable importance. Bonaparte
ordered the ancient fortifications to be strengthened, and
new works erected for its defenoe ; he left a garrison in
the place, and having amply supplied it with ammunition,
Stores, and provisions, continued his march to Cathieh,
where the army arrived on the 4th, after suffering exces-
sively from a want of water. The divisions arrived in
succession, but the wells yielded less, and that of a worse
quality, them when the army first passed through the town.
The magazines at Cathieh were amply furnished s the
army remained there two days, and, in the interval, the
General-in-Chief went to inspect the posts at Tineth,
Pelusium, and the mouth of Ommfaredge, on the lake
])fenzale when he ordered a fort to be erected near
Tineth, in order to secure the command of the mouth, of
Ommfaredge; he also left a considerable garrison at

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 39

Cathieh, and united the command of the place to that of
El-Arish under a General of Brigade,*

* We insert a fourth official letter of Sir W. S. Smith's relative
to the raising the siege of St. John d'Acre, the retreat of the French,

" My Lord, « Tigrc, at anchor off Jaffa, 30th May, 1799.
" The providence of Almighty God has been wonderfully mani-
fested in the defeat and precipitate retreat of the French army ; the
means we had of opposing its gigantic efforts against us being totally
inadequate of themselves to the production of such a result. The
measure of their iniquities seems to have been filled by the massacre
of the Turkish prisoners at Jaffa, in cool blood, three days after their
capture ; and the plain of Nazareth has been the boundary of Bona*
nerte's extraordinary career. He raised the siege of Acre on the 20th
May, leaving all his heavy artillery behind him, either buried or
thrown into the sea, where, however, it is visible, and can easily be
weighed. The circumstances which led to this event, subsequent to
my last despatch of the 9th instant, are as follow :— Conceiving that
the ideas of the Syrians, as to the supposed irresistible prowess of
these invaders, must be changed, since they had witnessed the checks
which the besieging army daily met with in their operations before
the town of Acre, I wrote a circular letter to the Princes and Chiefs
of the Christians of Mount Lebanon, anbTalso to the Sheiks of the
Druses, recalling them to a sense of their duty, and engaging them
to cut off the supplies from the French camp. I sent them, at the
same time, a copy of Bonaparte's impious Proclamation, in which he
boasts of having overthrown all Christian establishments, accom-
panied by a suitable exhortation, calling upon them to choose be*
tween the friendship of a Christian knight and that of an unprincipled
renegado. This letter had all the effects I could desire. They in>,
mediately sent me two ambassadors, professing not only, friendship,,
but obedience ; assuring me, that in proof of the latter, they had sent
out parties to arrest such of the mountaineers as should be found
carrying wine and gunpowder to the French camp, and placing eighty
prisoners of this description at my disposal. I had thus the satisfac-
tion to find Bonaparte's career farther northward effectually stopped
by a warlike people inhabiting an impenetrable country. General
Kleber's division had been sent eastward, towards the fords of Jordan,
to oppose the Damascus army; it was recalled from thence to take its
turn in the daily efforts to mount the breach at Acre, in which every
other division in succession had failed, with the loss of their bravest
men, and above three-fourths of their officers. It seems much was
hoped from this division, as it had, by its firmness and the steady
front it opposed in the form of a hollow square, keot upwards of ten
thousand men in check, duriag a whole day, in the plain between
Nazareth and Mount Tabor, till Bonaparte came with his horse-artil-
lery, and extricated these troops, dispersing the multitude of irregu-
lar cavalry, by which they were completely surrounded.

The Turkish ChifHick regimeut having been censured for the ill
success of their sally, and their unsteadiness in the attack of the gar*.

Digitized by

Google

40 THE LIFE OF

On the 6th of Jane the army continued its march, the
bead-quaters were removed on the next day, in order to

den, made a fresh sally the next night, Soliman Aga, the Lieutenant-
Colonel, being determined to retrieve the honour of the regiment
by the punctual execution of the orders I had given him to make
himself master of the enemy's third parallel, and this he did most
effectually ; but the impetuosity of a few carried them on to the
second trench, where they lost some of their standards, though they
spiked four guns before their retreat. Kleber's division, instead of
mounting the breach, according to Bonaparte's intention, 'was thus
obKged to spend its time and its strength in recovering these
works, in which it succeeded, after a conflict of three hours,
leaving every thing in statu quo, except the loss of men, which was
very considerable on both sides. After this failure, the French
grenadiers absolutely refused to mount the breach any more over
the putrid bodies of their unburied companions, sacrificed in former
attacks by Bonaparte's impatience and precipitation, which led him
to commit such palpable errors as even seamen could take advantage
of. He seemed to have no principle but that of pressing forward, and
appeared to stick at nothing to obtain the object of his ambition,
although it must be evident to every body else, that even if he suc-
ceeded to take the town, the fire of the shipping must drive him out
of it again in a short time ; however, the knowledge the garrison had
of the inhuman massacre at Jaffa rendered them desperate in their
personal defence. Two attempts to assassinate me in the town
having failed, recourse was had to a most flagrant breach of every
law of honour, and of war. A flag of truce was sent into the town
by the hand of an Arab Dervise, with a letter to the Pacha, proposing
a cessation of arms, for the purpose of burying the dead bodies, the
stench from which became intolerable, and threatened the existence
of every one of us on both sides, many having died delirious within
a few hours after being seized with the first symptons of infection.
It was natural (hat we should gladly listen to" this proposition, and
that we should consequently be off our guard during the conference.
While the answer was under consideration, a volley of shot and shells
on a sudden announced an assault, which, however, the garrison was
ready to receive, and the assailants only contributed to increase the
number of the dead bodies in question, to the eternal disgrace of the
General who thus disloyally sacrificed them. I saved the life of
the Arab from the effect of the indignation of the Turks, and took
him off to the Tigre with me, whence I sent him back to the
General, which made the army ashamed of having been exposed to
such a merited reproof. Subordination was now at an end, and all
hopes of success having vanished, the enemy had no alternative left
but a precipitate retreat, which was put in execution in the night
between the 20th and 21st instant. I had above said, that the bat-
tering train of artillery, (except the carriages, which were burnt)
is now in our hands amounting to 23 pieces. The howitzers and
medium twelve-pounders, originally conveyed by land with much
difficulty/ and successfully employed to make the first breach, were

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4}

proceed to Salehieb. The division of General Kleber re-
paired to Tineth, for the purpose of embarking on the

embarked in the country vessels at Jaffa, to be conveyed coastwise
together with the worst among the two thousand wounded, which em-
barrassed the march of the army. This operation was to be ex-
pected. I took care, therefore, to be between Jaffa and Damietta
before the French army could get as far as the former place. The
vessels being hurried to sea without Seamen to navigate them, and the
wounded being in want of every necessary, even water and provi-
sions, they steered strait to his Majesty's ships,, in full confidence of
receiving the succours of humanity, in which they were not disap-
pointed. I have sent them on to Damietta, where they will receive
such farther aid as their situation requires, and which it was out of my
power to give to so many. Their expressions of gratitude to us were
mingled with execrations on the name of their General, who had, as
they said, thus exposed them to peril rather than fairly and honourably
renew the intercourse with the English, which he bad broken off by
a false and malicious assertion, that 1 had intentionally exposed the
former prisoners to the infection of the plague. To the honour of
the French army be it said, this assertion was not believed by them,
and it thus recoiled on its author. The intention of it was evidently
to do away the effect which the Proclamation of the Porte began to
make on the soldiers, whose eager hands were held above the parapet
of their works to receive them when thrown from the breach. He
cannot plead misinformation as his excuse, his Aid-de-camg, Mr.
Lallemand, having had free intercourse with these prisoners on* board
the Tigre when he came to treat about them ; and having been or-
dered, though too late, not to repeat their expressions of contentment "
at the prospect of going home. It was evident to both sides, that
when a General has recourse to such a shallow, and, at the same time,
to. such a mean artifice as a malicious falsehood, all better resources
were at an end, and the defection in his army was consequently in-
creased to the highest pitch.

The utmost disorder has been manifested in the retreat, and the
whole tract between Acre and Gaza is strewed with dead bodies of
those who have sunk under fatigue, or the effect of slight wounds ;
such as could walk, unfortunately for them, not having been em-
barked. The rowing gun-boats annoyed the van column of the re-
treating army on its march along the beach, and the Arabs harassed
its rear when it turned inland to avoid their fire. We observed the
smoke of musketry from behind the sand-hHls from the attack of a
party of them, which came down to our boats, and touched our flag
with every token of union and respect. Ismael Pacha, governor of
Jerusalem, to whom notice was sent of Bonaparte's preparation for
retreat, having entered this town by land at the same time that we
brought our guns to bear on it by sea, a stop was put to the massacre
and pillage already begun by tne Naplousians. The English flag,
rehoisted on the Consul's house (under which the Pacha met me), t
serves as an assylum for all religions, and every description of the sur-
viving inhabitants. The heaps of unburied Frenchmen lying on the
bodies of those whom they bad massacred two months ago, afford an*

VOL. II.— 17. G

Digitized by

Google

42 THE LIFE OF

lake Menzale for Damietta. The other divisions of the arttjr
took the route to Cairo, where they arrived on the 14th
of June. The grandees of that city, the people, and the
garrison came forth to greet the French, who then dreif
up in form for parade. They were astonished to behold
troops in the highest order, and presenting a brilliant
appearance, who had just traversed a desert, and suffered
a toilsome and sanguinary campaign of four months ; a
sight so gratifying, but so unexpected, produced a scene
truly affecting, that of dear friends and respected com-
rades, impressed with the most lively, even an enthusi-
astic joy, at once more seeing and embracing each other.
The city of Cairo was, in effect, to the French asa se-
cond country ; its inhabitants universally receiving them
as brothers.*

other proof of divine justice, which has caused these murderers to perish
by. the infection arising from their own atrocious act. Seven poor
wretches are left alive in the hospital, where they are protected, and
shall be taken care of. We have had a most dangerous and painful
duty in disembarking here to protect the inhabitants, but it has been
effectually done ; and Ismael Pacha deserves every credit for his hu-
mane exertions and cordial co-operation to that effect. Two thousand
cavalry are just despatched to harass the French rear, and I am in
hopes to overtake their van in time to profit by their disorder ; but
this will depend on the assembling of sufficient force, and on exertions
of which I am not absolutely master, though I do my utmost to give
the necessary impulse, and a right direction. I have every confidence
that the officers and men of the three ships under my orders, who, in the
face of a most formidable enemy, have fortified a town that had not a
single heavy gun mounted on the land side, and who have carried oa
all intercourse by boats, under a constant fire of musquetry and grape,
will be able efficaciously to assist the army in its future operations.
This letter will be delivered to your Lordship by Lieutenant Canes,
first of the Tigre, whom I have judged worthy to command the The-
seus, as captain, ever since the death of my much-lamented friend and
coadjutor Miller. I have taken Lieutenant England, first of that ship, ,
to my assistance in the Tigre, by whose exertions, and those of. Lieu-
tenant Summers and Mr. Atkinson, together with the bravery of the .
rest of the officers and men, that ship was saved, though on fire in five
places at once, from a deposit of French shells bursting on board her.
" I have the honour to be,. &u

"W.Sipnbx Smith."
Right H*n. Lord Nelson, Bear Admiral of the Blue, Sfc.

• Napoleon remarked to Comte Las Cases, that if he could have
united the Mamelukes to the French in Egypt* he would have looked

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 43

Namborilfgs extravagant and unfounded reports were

maliciously dttsemioaled at Cairo respecting the condi-

- tion of the prmy ; it was at length described as reduced

to a handful of wounded and dying men : what a contrast

did it present? The following is a correct statement.* -

The army engaged in the Syrian expedition lost, in

upon himself as master of the world. " With that select band and the
common herd, recruited in the territory and distributed as necessity
required, I know of nothing that I could not hatoe overturned. Algiers
trembled at the ideal But if ever your Sultan19 (meaning Bona-
parte), said the Dey of Algiers to the French Consul, "should take it
into his head to fay us a visit, w'nere would be our security? for he
htu defeated the Mamelukes." Napoleon then observed: " The Maine*
tukesthroughout the East were at once the objects of veneration and
of terror, they constituted a MiUtia that nod been regarded as
invincible even among ourselves."

' * Napoleon, says Comte Las Cases, remarked, that when his expedi-
tion to Syria was made known, it was taken for granted at Grand Cairo
that he would never return; and upon this occasion, he related the
following audacious robbery committed by a Chinese dwarf, who was
in his service. " He was a little deformed dwarf," said Bonaparte,
" who had served to amuse Josephine at Paris. He was the only Chi-
nese resident in the French Capital, and used to attend behind her
eHrriage* She also had him with her in Italy ; but being in the habit
of thieving she did not know what to do with him* In order to rid
her of this nuisance, I took him with me to Egypt, and when at
Cairo the little monster had the superintendance of my wine-cellar.
No sooner had I traversed the daert, than he sold, for a very mode*
rate sum, two thousand bottles of the most delicious Bordeaux wine*
only seeking to amass wealth under the persuasion that I should
never return. When my arrival was announced, he was not in the
least disconcerted, but ran to meet me, and made known to me, in
the stifle of a faitftful servant, the dilapidations tliat had been com-
mitted on my wines which lie attributed, with unblushing effrontery,
to all such as he deemed expedient. The cheat was so flagrant that
he was immediately convicted on his own evidence. I was pressed
from all quarters to have him hanged, but I did not follow the advice,
because in that case it would have been no more than an act of justice
to have executed all the wearers of embroidered coats who had
knowingly partaken of the wines. I was satisfied with discarding
him from my service, and banishing him to Suez, there to do the best
he could for himself"

- Speaking of his first idea of becoming a conspicuous figure in the
world, Bonaparte stated to Comte Las Cases, that it was not until after
he affair of the bridge of Lodi he entertained any ambitious views,
which were strengthened on the soil of Egypt at the battle of the Py-
ramids, and on his gaining possession of Cairo, &c. " Then" exclaimed ■
Napoleon " / really thought that I might indulge myself with
dreams of the most brilliant and portentous achievements, &c. "

Digitized by

Google

44 THE LIFE OF

the oonrse of four months, seven hundred men by the
plague, and aboat five hundred killed in battle. The
.number of the wounded were, certainly, at least
.eighteen hundred, but of these not more than ninety
suffered amputation : almost all the others were likely
to be soon cured, and in a condition to join their respec-
tive corps.

Our losses by the plague were especially made the
subject of interested or malicious exaggeration. When
the army arrived in Syria, the towns were in general in-
fested by this malady, one which ignorance and barbarity
renders so deplorably fatal in these countries. Those
who are affected by it generally give themselves up for
dead,* every one abandons, and flies from them, and
they are left to perish, when the aids of medicine and
a proper degree of attention would have saved their lives.
The principle of fatalism, by which these people are
guided, contributes not a little to prevent their recur-
rence to medical assistance. The French soldiers were
not without strong prejudices in this respect ; the slightest
fever was by them deemed to be the plague, and they
considered themselves as infected by an incurable malady.
Desgenettes, chief physician to the army, closely attended
the hospitals, visited every patient himself, and tran-
quillized their apprehensions. He maintained that the
glandular swellings, which were taken to be symptoms,
of the plague, were those of a species of malignant fever,

• We are informed by Count Las Cases, that Napoleon conceived
the plague was caught by aspiration as well as by the touch ; and he
maintained that the greatest danger and cause of the infection spreading
arose from fear ; that its principal seat was in the imagination : all
those, he remarked, who gave way to terror uniformly perished. Its
principal remedy was moral fortitude. He then stated, the having
touched some infected with the plague when at Jaffa, and that many
were saved by being deceived as to the real nature of their malady
for. the space of two months. Napoleon further observed that the
best means of preserving the army was to proceed on the march,
giving the soldiers great exercise; as fatgue and keeping the mind
occupied were found to tye the best guarantees against the infection

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 45

which might easily be oared by ©are and attention, and
keeping the patient's mind easy. He even went so far
as to inoculate himself, in presence of the patients, with
the suppurated matter from one of these buboes, and pro-
ceeded to cure himself by the same remedies which he
administered to them.*

Every species of heroism was exhibited in this fine
army; but the philanthropic devotion of the illustrious
Desgenettes ranked among the most generous and the
most useful. After having restored to the soldiers that
tranquillity of mind so necessary to eonvalesence, he
perfected, by his care, assiduity, and the exertion of bis
talents, that cure which he so happily undertook, and
the far greater number of his patients were completely
restored.

So glorious an example necessarily had its influence
upon the other officers of health ; the conduct of Larrey,
chief surgeon to the army, before adverted to, merits the
highest eulogiam, in the zeal and activity which he un-
remittingly displayed in the performance of bis painful
duties. He has been seen, together with his worthy
assistants, dressing the unfortunate wounded even at the
foot of the breach, and under the fire of the enemy.' Se-
veral of these professional heroes were wounded while
thus nobly employed, and one or two were killed, but no-
thing could diminish their patriotic ardour and devotion.

* In Baron Larrey's Memoirs he mentions, as a kind of phenomena,
or, at all events, as a very remarkable circumstance, that on the retreat
from Saint John D'Acre, the emergency of circumstances having neces-
sitated the medical men to diminish the quantity of food given to
the sick and wounded, consisting merely of cakes and biscuits, while
their only beverage was brackish water; that, notwithstanding this,
they traversed sixty leagues across the desert without any accident,
1 while nearly the whole were recovered on regaining the soil of Egypt.
He attributes this species of prodigy to direct or indirect exercise,
to the dry heat of the desert, ana, above all, to the excessive joy
that was experienced by the soldiers on once more regaining a terri-
tory that was become to them a species of second mother country.

Digitized by

Google

46 THE LIFE OF

CHAP. II.

M. Miofs Account of the sacrificing the Turkish Prisoners
at Jaffa — Curious Statements respecting the Siege of Acre
— Denon's Narrative continued— Town of Syut, or Lyco-
polis — Character of thet Lybian Range of Mountains —
Ancient excavated Tombs — Doum Palm-tree— The Red
and White Coptic Convents — Large Town of Qirgeh, and
Abundance of . Provisions— Conversation with a Nubian
Prince — Thieving Disposition of the Egyptians— Arabian
Tales, and Manner of relating them — Baths— Thunder in
Egypt — Arrival of the Flotilla— Battle with the Mame-
lukes at Samanhut — Pursuit of Murad-Bey — Approach to
Tentyra — Character of Egyptian Architecture — Magnifi-
cent Portico — Style of the Ornaments and Hieroglyphics-
Crocodiles in the River — Astonishing Effect of the first Ap-
proach of Thebes — General Site of the Monuments and the
Necropolis — Colossal Statues of Memnon and Osymandyas
—Names of eminent Visiters inscribed — Palace of Medinet
— Abu — Singular Tamarisk-tree — Sudden Contraction of the
Nile — Beautiful Portico at Esneh, or Latopolis — Hieracon-
polis—Etfu— First View of Appollinopotis Magna — Haras-
sing March through the Desert— Village of Biuban and affect-
ing Incidents— Further Details respecting the Troops at-
tacked by the Plague at Jaffa— Dreadful State of a dying
Soldier— Proclamation of Napoleon from the Divan at
Cairo — Bon aparte's Reference to the Egyptian Expedition
of Saint Louis — His Perusal of the Book of Judith, and
Opinions of the Religions of Mahomet and of Jesus Christ

We have before remarked, that no period of Napoleon's
career was more astonishing than his Egyptian campaign ;
and it is that conviction which prompts us to think that
every circumstance relative to this eventful period of his

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 47

life should be recorded ; and we, consequently proceed to
give the following details relative to his Syrian expedi-
tion, which it was not possible to condense in the course
of the preceding chapters without confusing the mind
of the reader. We shall begin hj a quotation from the
Journal ef J. M. Miot, who, detailing the sacrifice of the
Turkish prisoners, at Jaffa, concerning which we spoke
in our last chapter, thus expresses himself.

** It is here that I must undertake a most painful recital.
The frankness, I will venture to say the candour, which may
be observed in these memoirs, make it a duty that I should
not pass over in silence the event which I am about to
relate, and of which I was an eye-witness. If I have
pledged myself in writing this work, not to judge the ac-
tions of the man who will be judged by posterity, I have
also undertaken to reveal every thing which may enlighten
opinion concerning him. It is just therefore that I should
repeat the motives which were enforced at the time, to
authorise a determination so cruel as that which decided
the fate of the prisoners at Jaffa. Behold then the con*
^derations which seem to have provoked it The army,
already weakened by its loss at the sieges of El-Arish
and of Jaffa, was still more so by disease, whose ravages
became from day to day more alarming. It had great
difficulties in maintaining itself, and the soldier rarely
received his full ration. This want of the means of
subsistence augmented, in consequence of the evil dispo^
sitioa ef the inhabitants towards us. To feed the Jaffiu
prisoners, while we kepi them, with us, was not only to
increase oar necessities, but constantly eaoumber our
own movements ; to confine them at Jaffa would* without
removing the test inconvenience, have created another
— the possibility if a revolt; considering the- small force
that could have been left to garrison theft place ? to send
them into Egypt would -have been obliging ourselves to«
dismiss a considerable detachment, which would greatly
have reduced the force of the expedition : to *et them at

Digitized by

Google

48 THt LIFE OF

liberty upon their parole, notwithstanding all the engage-
ments into which they couMLhave entered, would have been
despatching them to increase the strength of our enemies,
and particularly the garrison of St. John of Acre ; for
Dgezzar was not a man to respect promises made by his
soldiers, men little religions themselves as to a point of
hononr of which they knew not the force. There conse-
quently remained only one course which reconciled every
thing; it was frightful ; however it appears to have been
deemed necessary.

On the 10th of March, in the afternoon, the Jaffa
prisoners were put in motion in the midst of a vast square
battalion formed by the troops of General Bon's division.
A dark rumour of the fate which was prepared for them,
determined me, as well as many other persons, to mount
on horseback, and follow this silent column of victims, to
satisfy myself whether what had been reported was well
founded. The Turks marching pell-mell, already foresaw
their fate ; they shed no tears ; they uttered no cries; they
were resigned. Some, who were wounded, and could not
march so fast as the rest, were bayonetted on the way ;
others went about the crowd, and appeared to be giving sa-
lutary advice in this imminent danger. Perhaps, the boldest
might have thought that it would not be impossible to break
through the battalion which surrounded them : perhaps they
hoped that in dispersing over the plains which they were
crossing, a certain number might escape death. Every means
had been taken to prevent this, and the Turks made no
attempt to fly. Having reached the sand-hills to the west
of Jaffa they were halted near a pool of stagnant and dirty
water. The officer who commanded the troops then had
the mass divided into small bodies, and these being led'
to many different parts were there shot. This horrible
operation required much time, notwithstanding the num-
ber of troops employed in the dreadfnl sacrifice : I owe
it to those soldiers to declare that they did not, without'
extreme repugnance, submit to the abominable /service

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEdN BONAPARTE, 49

which was required from their Tiotorioog hands. There
was a group of prisoners near the pool of .water, among
whom were some old chiefs pf a noble and resolute cou-
rage, and one young man whose intrepidity was dread-
folly shaken. At so tender an age he must have believed
himself innocent, and that feeling hurried him on to an
action which appeared to shock those about him. He
threw himself at the feet of the horse which the chief of
the French troops rode, and embraced the knees of that
officer, imploring him to spare his life, and exclaiming,
'Of what am I guilty? What evil have I done?' His
tears, his affecting cries were unavailing ; they could not
change the fatal sentenoe pronounced upon his lot. With
the exception of this young man, all the other Turks
made their ablutions calmly in the stagnant pool of
which I have spoken, then taking each other by the
hand, after having laid it upon the heart and the lips,
according to their manner of salutation, they gave and
received an eternal adieu. Their courageous spirits ap-
peared to defy death ; you saw in their tranquillity the
confidence which in those last moments was inspired by
their religion, and the hope of a happy futurity. They
seemed to say, I quit this world to go and enjoy with Ma-
hommed eternal felicity. Thus the reward after this life
which the Koran promises supported the Mussulman, con-
quered indeed, but still proud in his adversity. .

" I saw a respectable old man whose tone and man-
ners announced superior rank. I beheld him coolly order
a hole to be made before him in the loose sand, deep
enough to bury his body alive; doubtless he did not
choose to die by any other hands than those of his' own
people : within this protecting and melancholy grave he
laid himself upon his back ; and his comrades addressing
their supplicatory prayers to God, covered him presently
with sand, and trampled afterwards upon the soil which
served for a winding sheet, probably with the idea of
accelerating the t end of his sufferings. This spectacle,

VOL. II.— 17. h

igitizedby

Google

50 THE LIFE OF

Which still makes my heart palpitate, and which I paint
bnt too feebly, took place daring the execution of the
parties distributed about the sand-hills. At length there
remained no more of all the prisoners than those who
were placed near the pool of water. Oar soldiers had
exhausted their cartridges; and it was necessary to
destroy them with the bayonet and the sword. I could
not support this horrible sight, but hastened away, pale
and almost fainting. Some officers informed me in the
evening that these unhappy men, yielding to that irresis-
tible impulse of nature which makes us shrink from death
even when we have no longer a hope of escaping, strove
to get one behind another, and received in their limbs,
the blows aimed at the heart, which would at once have
terminated their wretched lives. There was then formed
a dreadful pyramid of the dead and of the dying streaming
with blood, and it was found necessary to drag away the
bodies of those who had already expired, in order to finish
the wretches who, under cover of this frightful and
shocking rampart, had not yet been despatched. This
picture is exact and faithful ; and the recollection makes
my hand tremble, although the whole horror is not de-
scribed.

" We returned to the camp before Acre, and learned,
on our arrival, that Rear-admiral Peree had been fortu-
nate enough to land some battering pieces at Jaffa, which
were brought from thence with infinite difficulty. Never
could any troops regard their artillery with more delight ;
even the peasantry shared our joy, and exulted in the„
promised victory which was to punish Djezzar for his cru-
elties. Bonaparte pointed to the place, and said to
Murat, 'The fate of the East is in that paltry town ; its
fall is the object of my expedition, and Damascus will be
the fruits/ I was then in Marat's tent. Being in the ca-
valry he had little to do, and we lived as luxuriously as we
could. We rose between six and seven ; la toiktUp+e*
noit peu (Tinstans ; we breakfasted about ten, arifNbft

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 51

nuprning was consecrated to service. About noon we went
to the camp to learn the news, or to pay visits; about
three we returned, and dined between four and five, pre-
serving the customs of onr country. General Marat's
table was in great request, because of the wine which we
had collected in our different incursions. After dinner we
took Mocha coffee, and smoaked Latakia tobacco, lying
alfresco under the great tent which we had taken at the
Jordan. It was not made like other tents ; the base did
not touch the ground, and might be opened on different
sides, so as to permit a current of air while it shielded us
from the sun ; there we lay, our conversation generally
turning upon women, pleasure, and France, these three
topics being then synonymous with us, as one or other
sufficed to chase. away the idea of our disagreeable po-
sition. In the evening we retired to the closed tent, and
often during the night had the majestic but afflicting
'spectacle of \he fusillade which was going on under the
walls of Acre ; the shells that were traversing the air,
and the fire-pans which the beseiged every moment threw
down the ramparts to dispense light around the fort and
preserve themselves from any surprise. At last, after
having examined the interior of our dormitory to drive
out the scorpions which introduced themselves there
during the day, we both lay down in the sweet hope of
seeing Acre taken and our labours terminated.*

Three attacks had now been made upon the accursed
tower of Acre, the one upon our arrival ; the second be-
fore the' battle of Esdron ; and the third a few . days
afterwards. The same tower was still the object of attack,

• M. Denon's narrative continues as follows :— Siut is a large well-
peopled town, built on the site of Lycopolis. But where is this
animal of northern climates found here? Is it a worship borrowed
from the Greeks, the account of which we have received from the
Romans, who, knowing but little of natural history, have confounded
the jackal with the wolf? No antiquities are found in this town, but
the JLybian chain, at the foot of which it stands, here exhibits such

Digitized by

Google

52 THE LIFE OF

and always attended with the same ill success. The
engineers now began a new mine ; Caffarelli, going to

a vast number of tombs, that without doubt this place occupies the
territory of some very ancient and 6ourishing city. We arrived here
an hour after noon, and employed the remainder of the day in pro-
curing food for the army, in exercising the sick, and in taking pos-
session of barks and provisions, which the Mamelukes had not been
able to carry away with them.

I hastened to visit the Lvbian chain of hills, so eager was I to
explore an Egyptian mountain. The rocks are near half a league
from Siut ; and in the road is a very pretty house of the kiachef, who
was agent for Soliman-Bey. The rocks are excavated by a vast num-
ber of tombs of different dimensions, and decorated with more or less
magnificence, which leaves no doubt of the proximity of the ancient
site of some considerable town. All the inner porches of these
grottoes are covered with hieroglyphics; months would be required to
read them, even if one knew the language ; and it would take years
to copy them. I observed on entering the first porch, that all the
elegancies of ornament which the Greeks have employed in their
architecture, all the waving lines, the scrolls, and other forms, are
here executed with taste and exquisite delicacy. If one of these
excavations was a single operation, as the uniform regularity of the plan
of each would seem to indicate, it must have been an immense labour
to construct a tomb ; but we may suppose that, when once finished,
it would serve for ever for the sepulture of a whole family or even
race, and that some religious worship was regularly paid to the dead ;
otherwise where would have been the use of such finished ornaments
of inscriptions never read, and of a ruinous, secret, and hurried
splendour? At different periods or annual festivals, or when some
new inhabitant was added to the tombs, funeral rites were doubtless
performed, in which the pomp of ceremony might vie with the mag-
nificence of the place ; wnich is the more probable, as the richness of
decoration in the interior part forms a most striking contrast wkh the
outer walls, which are only the rough native rock, f found one of these
caves, with a single saloon, in which were an innumerable quantity
of graves cut in the rock in regular order : they had been ransacked
to procure the mummies ; and I found several fragments of their
contents, such as linen, hands, feet, and loose bones.

Besides these principal grottoes, there is such a countless number
of smaller excavations, that the whole rock is cavernous and resounds
under the foot. Further on to the south, are remains of large quarries,
the cavities of which are supported by pilasters : some of these have
been the abode of pious hermits, who in these vast retreats, united
the austere aspect of an inhabitant of the-desert to the gentle majesty
of one who partakes of the bounties bestowed by a river, which
dispenses to its banks plenty and fertility. This was the emblem of
their life ; before Jtheir retreat, cares, wealth, agitation ; afterwards
calm and contemplative enjoyments ; the silence of nature too imi-
tated the reserve to which they were compelled : in these regions the
unchanging and august splendour of the sky forcibly impels to con-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 53

inspect it, leant bis right arm Apon the top of the
trenches : the soldiers on guard begged him instantly to

stent but chastened admiration ; the dawn of day is not enlivened by
the cries of joy or the bounding of animals ; the song of no bird
proclaims the return of morn ; even the lark, which in our climates
enlivens and animates our fallows, in these burning regions only calls
to his mate, but never chants his happiness ; the grave dignity of
Nature seems to inspire with the deep sense of humble acknowledge-
ment, so that the grotto of the cenobite appears to have been placed
here by the order and choice of the Deity himself; and every
animated being partakes with him in his grave and silent meditation.

Small niches, stucco facings, a few red paintings representing
crosses, and some inscriptions in a language which I took to be Coptic,
are the only remains which give evidence to the former habitation of
the austere cenobites in these gloomy cells. In the season in which
we visited them, nothing was comparable to the exquisite verdure of
the banks of the Nile, which embellished the shore with various hues
of beautiful green as far as the eye could reach. My curiosity had
led me so far from head-quarters, that I could not regain them before
the march.

It is always attended with some embarrassment when a large army
quits a town. We set out the next morning before day-break. All
our guides had joined the same division, a circumstance which caused
ours to wander at random, and it was some time before we were
collected. We followed the sinuosities of the canal of Abu-Assi,
which is the last of Upper Egpyt, and so considerable in size, that
it might be deemed as an arm of the Nile, dividing with this river
the extent of the valley, which in this day's march appeared to be 'no
more than a league in breadth, but cultivated with greater care and
skill that in any part which we bad yet traversed: we found several
roads marked out, which convinced us that they might, with very little
expense, be rendered excellent, and most confpletely durable, in a
country where neither rain nor frost are ever witnessed. At every half
league we found wells with a small monument of hospitality, in
which we could allay the thirst of man and horse. Towards the
middle of the day we approached the desert, where I found three
new objects ; one was the down palm-tree, which differs from the
date palm, it having from eight to fifteen stems instead of only a
single one, and its ligneous Fruit is attached by clusters to the ex-
tremity of the principal branches, whenee proceed numerous tufts,
forming the foliage of the tree. The fruit is of a triangular iorm, and
of the size of an egg ; the first, or outer coat, is spongy, and eats
like the carobe; the taste is sweetish, like honey, resembling the
flavor of spice bread ; under this coat is a hard bark, filamentous
likethe cocoa-nut, which it resembles more than any other fruit ; but
it wants the fine hard ligneous shell of the cocoa ; its gelatinous part
is tasteless ; it becomes very hard by drying, and beads are made of
it, strung upon chaplets, which take a good dye and polish.

I also saw a charming little bird, which by its shape and habitudes
should be arranged in the class of jly-catchcrs ; it seized and devoured

Digitized by

Google

54 TJIE LIFE OF

remove it, for they assured him tlpat the enemy were alert
in seeing and expert in aiming at the smallest marfc

those insects with admirable address. Thanks to the indolence of the
Turks, all birds are familiar in their country; for though they
love nothing, they disturb nothing: the colour of that I have
just mentioned is a clear and lively green ; the head and feathers be-
neath the wings, golden ; the beak, long, black, and pointed : in the
tail it has one feather about half an inch longer than the rest ; the size
of the bird is similar to the small titmouse.

A little further off I observed in the desert some swallows of a clear
prey colour, like that of the sand over whicn they were flying ; these
do not emigrate, or at least only go into similar climates ; we never
see any of them in Europe of this colour ; they are of the species of
the wheat-ear.
After marching thirteen hours, we arrived in the evening at Game-

. rissiem, unfortunately for this village ; for the cries of the women
soon convinced us that our soldiers, profiting by the darkness of the
night, under pretence of seeking provisions, and notwithstanding
their weariness, were enjoying by violence the gratifications which the

, place offered them -. the inhabitants, pillaged, dishonoured, and
urged to desperation, fell upon the patroles whom we sent to defend
them : and these, attacked by the furious natives, were killing them
in their own defence, for want of being able to explain their object, and
to make themselves understood.— O war 1 thou art brilliant in history,
but frightful when viewed with all tby attending horrors, naked, and
undisguised.

On the 28th we skirted the edge of the desert, which was bordered
by a succession of villages. In spite of the cold which we felt during
the night, the heat of the day, and the productions of the earth,
gave us notice that we were approaching the tropic : the barley was
ripe, the wheat in ear, and the melons planted in the open field, were
already in full flower. We spent the night in the wood near Narcette.
On the 29th we crossed a desert, and passed by a Coptic con-
vent, fired by the Mamelukes on the preceding evening, and
which was still burning, so as to prevent me from entering ; but it re-
sembled in all its parts the white convent a short distance off, and
situated also under the mountain, at the border of the desert, which
I shall presently describe. The first is called the Red Convent,
because it is built of brick ; the other the White Convent, being
constructed of stone ; this latter had also been set on fire the preceding
evening ; but the monks in escaping had left the gates open, and
some of their servants were rescuing what they could from the rums.

The erection of this edifice is attributed to Saint Helena. The
church was the only building left standing, but there had doubtless
been a monastery attached to it. This had long since disappeared, but
the church had been built more strongly, and might with a few
pieces of cannon on the walls, easily resist the attacks of the Arabs,
or even the Mamelukes. But the poor monks, beinjg without arms,
coufd only oppose to oppression their patience, sanctity, resignation,
and especially their poverty, which would have saved them on anjr

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 5$

wtrioh presented itself; The general did not attend to
the warning, and presently his elbow, which was all thai

other occasion; in the present case, however, the Mamelukes re-
venged themselve on catholics, for the evils which they had experienced
from other catholics, as if they could by this injustice make up for
the loss which we had occasioned them. We perceived in the rains
produced by this catastrophe some charcoal, which remained from
the burning of the wood-yard ; and the urgent necessities of insatiable
war compelled us also to take away these wrecks of the devastation
of which we had been the real cause*

• Since the first destruction of the convent the monks had made their
dwellings in the lateral gallery of the church, if dwellings they might
be called, which were only wretched huts, set up under those splendid
porches ; it was misery in -the very palace of pride.

Nothing can be more picturesque than the situation of these esta-
blishments on the edge of the desert, but commanding a view of the
rich country, watered by the canal of Abu-assi, and of the archi-
tecture of these edifices of the fourth century, and consequently
nearly two thousand years posterior to the grand monuments of high
Egyptian antiquity . The gravity of style here displayed, the cornices,
ana the gates, are absolutely the same as the primitive architecture ;
the general outline is good, excepting some deficiencies in the choir,
in which may be observed the decay of taste. We encamped in the
evening at Bonnasse Bura.

The ensuing day we returned along the Nile, and crossed the field
of battle, in which during the last war between the Turks and the Ma-
melukes, Assan-Basha was beaten by Murad-Bey, where the latter,
with five thousand Mamelukes, overthrew, and routed eighteen thousand
Turks and three thousand Mamelukes. Malem- Jacob, a copt, who ac-
companied us as our steward, was a spectator of this battle, and had taken
a share in it ; he explained to us all the particulars. He showed us with
whatsuperiority of talent Murad had gained his advantage and profited
by it ; the very same Murad-Bey, who was now flying before fifteen hun-
dred infantry. As we were descanting on the vicissitudes of fortune, drawn
on by the eagerness of conversation we had very imprudently, as was
our usual custom, got half a league before the anny. I said in jest
to Desaix, that it would be very ridiculous to have, it told in history,
thai-he had lost his head in a rencontre with half a dozen Mamelukes,
and that for my part I should be inconsolable hr leaving mine behind
a bush, where k would be forgotten. At this time we were passing
out of Minchia, when Adjutant Clement came to inform the General
that there were Mamelukes in the village, and indeed we presently
saw first two, then six, soon after fourteen, and two behind, along with
their baggage : they quickly observed us : if we retreated we should be
carried off, as the country was enclosed ; Desaix, therefore, put a

good face on the matter, and appeared to be making his arrangements :
e had four fusileers whom he placed alternately on each side, to in-
crease the appearance of our force : we got some ditches between us
and the enemy ; we gained time, and at last our advanced guard came
up, and they retired. We were told that Murad was waiting for us at
Girgeh ; we heard loud cries, and saw clouds of dust ascend. Desaix

Digitized by

Google

50 THE LIFE OF

he exposed, was shattered. It was immediately ampu-
tated ; this was the second limb which he had lost, and

thought that at last he was going to obtain the battle which he had
been seeking so painfully for the last fortnight ; I was despatched to
hasten up the infantry. While gallopping along, I just perceived an
ancient embankment on the edge of the Nile, and flights of steps de-
scending into two basins — were they the ruins of Ptolemais ? A can-
non was fired as a signal to the cavalry, who were a league distant,
to rejoin us, and in half an hour we were ready either for attack or de-
fence. We marched in order of battle up to the spot where the
greatest number had collected, but they dispersed ; the Mamelukes
themselves disappeared, and we thus arrived at Girgeb, without being
able to come up with the enemy.

Here the reader will perhaps exclaim, that he sees no account of
Aphroditobolis, Crocodilopolis, Ptolemais — and will accuse me for
the total absence of all information upon these interesting subjects 1
But let him be pleased to recollect, that we were surrounded by
Arabs and Mamelukes, and that, in all probability, 1 should be made
prisoner, pillaged and killed, if I ventured only a hundred paces from
the column to fetch some of the bricks' of Aphroditopolis. The
embanked quay which I saw in gallopping to Minchia, was Ptolemais,
and no other remains of this town exist. But we are about to visit a
soil entirely new to the curious traveller, and to inspect the places
which Herodotus himself has only described from the reports that
were delivered to him.

Girgeh, where we arrived two hours after noon, is the capital of
Upper Egypt : it is a modern town and as large as Minyeh and Me-
laui, but less than S'iut. The name of Girgeh, or Djergeh, is derived
from a large monastery built previously to the town, and dedicated
to St. George, which is pronounced Girgeh in the language of the
country. The convent still exists, and we found in it European monks.
The Nile skirts the walls of Girgeb, and is constantly washing away
a part of them.. This town is interesting as being situated half way
between Cairo and Syene, and in a very rich territory. We found
all kinds of provisions, at a very- low price ; bread was one sous the
pound ; twelve eggs, two sous ; two pigeons, three sous ; a goose
weighing fifteen pounds, we got at twelve sous j— could this be
poverty? Such too was the abundance of these articles, that after
more than five thousand of us had remained there three weeks, in-
creased the consumption, and scattered money, no rise in the demand
for these necessaries had in consequence taken place.

However, our boats did not arrive ; we were in want of shoes and
of biscuit ; and the army therefore went into regular quarters, set up
ovens, and prepared a barrack to station five hundred men. During
this time of rest I experienced in my own case a great advantage in
strengthening my eye-sight, which had become so indifferent as to
threaten serious inconvenience. I had, indeed, no remedy with me ;
but I found a pot of honey, and a jar of vinegar, in the house of the
sheik in which I lodged : these did me great service, for I ate abun-
dantly of the former, and cooled the heat of my blood with the
latter, which I drank largely, mixed with water ana sugar.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. &7

be bore it with extreme courage. He died on the nine-
teenth day, after suffering amputation.

On the 3d of January we learnt that the peasants, seduced by the
Mamelukes, were collected in order to attack us in the rear, whilst
they were promised that we should be assaulted at the same time in
front. They had but a month ago plundered a caravan of two hun-
dred merchants, who were coming from India by the Red Sea, Cos-
scir, and Kouss; they therefore gave themselves great credit for their
courage ; forty of the neighbouring villages had assembled six or
seven thousand men, but our cavalry charged them, sabred ten or
twelve hundred of them, and thus put an end to their project.

We found atGirgeh a Nubian prince, a brother to the king of Dar-
fur : he was returning from India, and going to rejoin another of his
brothers, who was accompanying a caravan of Nubians of Sennar,
with many women. He was transporting to Cairo • elephants' teeth
and gold dust, to barter against coffee, sugar* shawls, cloth, lead, iron,
senna, and tamarinds. We had a long conversation with this young
prince, who was lively, gay, impetuous, and clever ; all which traits
were perceptible in nis physiognomy ; his colour was deeper than
bronze, his eyes were very fine and well set, his nose somewhat turned
up and small, his mouth ver\ wide but not flat, and his legs like
those of all the Africans, bowed and lank. He told us that his bro-
ther was an ally of the king of Burnu, and traded with him, and that
he was always at war with the people of Sennar. He likewise in-
formed us, that it was forty days' journey from Darfur to Siut, during
which time water was only to be met with once a week, either in the
wells or in crossing the oasis. The profits of these caravans ought
to be enormous to repay the expense and trouble of fitting them out,
and to indemnify them for their very great fatigues. When their
female slaves were not taken in war, they cost them one indifferent
gun, and the men slaves two. He told us that it was very cold in his
country at a certain time of the year, and having no word to express
to us ice, he said that they eat a great deal of a substance which was
hard when taken in the hands, and which slipped through the fingers
when it was held there for some time. We inquired of him of Tom-
buctoo, that celebrated city, the existence of which is so proble-
matical in Europe. He was not surprised at our questions. From bis
account Tombuctoo was at the south-west of his country, and its inha-
bitants came to trade with him : they were six months on their jour-
ney from Tombuctoo to Darfur, ancl purchased the various articles
which lie brought from Cairo, for which they gave gold dust in ex-
change* He added, that this country was called in their language
the paradise;, that the town of Tombuctoo was situated on the banks
of a river, which flowed towards the west, and that the inhabitants
were small of stature, and mild indisposition. We regretted much
the impossibility of enjoying more time with this interesting traveller,
but we could not indiscreetly urge him with questions, though he
seemed to be perfectly well inclined to make us acquainted with all
he knew, having nothing of the Mussulman gravity and taciturnity,
and expressing himself with ease and energy. He told us, besides,-
that in his country the. succession^ the royal family was elective ;

VOL. II.— 17. ' I

Digitized by

Google

$0 THE JJFE OF

The privations of the army had now become so great,
and the putridity of the dead and nnbnried bodies in the

that the military and civil chiefs, after the death of a king, chose out
of his sons, him whom they thought most worthy to succeed to the
throne ; and that hitherto there had been no example of a civil war
being produced by that custom.

All that 1 have been relating is, word for word, an authentic de-
tail of the conversation which we had with this foreign prince. He
added, that we had an infinite number of things to furnish Africa with,
and that we should find them very willing to trade with us, without
injuring the commerce which they kept up with each other: that we
should attach them to our interests by all their wants, and by the ex-
portation of the superfluity of our productions; that the trade with
India, in like measure, might be carried on through Mecca, taking
this town or that of Cosseir as a common entrepdt, in the same way
as Aleppo is for the Mussulman states, notwithstanding the length of
march required on each side to arrive at the common point of contact.

We watted daily for the barks which were to follow our march, hav-
ing on board our provisions, ammunition, and the clothing for our
troops. The wind, contrary to what generally prevails at this season,
had been uniformly favourable for the arrival of the boats, and yet
they were not come. We had despatched several expresses to gain
some tidings concerning them ; but the first that we sent had pe-
rished in passing through the revolted villages, and the others did
not appear.

On the 9th of January, the tenth day after our arrival, General
Desaix determined to send his cavalry to Siut, to know absolutely
what was become of his maritime convoy. We had previously sent
from Girgeh a battalion to Bardis, in quest of provision ; the officer
who commanded it informed us, on the evening of. the ninth, that the
Mamelukes had given* out that on the eleventh they would march
from Hau, to reach us on the next day ; and that they were abso-
lutely determined to give battle. This news was confirmed from
every quarter.

Another pest with which we were much harassed, was a perpetual
theft. No rigour of military execution could protect our arms or our
horses. Every night the inhabitants stole into our camp like rats, and,
lurking about, generally found an opportunity of seizing some article
of plunder, and carrying it away with them. Some of the robbers
had been caught in the very fact, and sacrificed to the rage of the
soldiers on guard ; it was hoped that this rigour would prove a salutary
example ; the sentinels were doubled, and yet on the same day two
of the artillery forges were taken off ; but the robbers were appre-
hended and shot immediately. In the night which followed this ex*
ecution, the horses of the aid-de-camp of the general of cavalry were
stolen: Desaix laid a wager that they would not touch any of
his property, but the next day his horse also disappeared, and the
plunderers had pulled down part of a wall in order to surprise the
general himself, which failed only on account of day-light breaking '
before they were prepared.

On the 10th, we learnt that Murad-fieyhad Invited the Arab

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. ftp

tre&chea so offensive and oootagioqs, that a most frightful
mortality, began to appear in the camp ; it was the plague,

sheiks of the Tillages which had submitted to us to rendezvous at
Girgeh, and march against us. The 12th; the day on which we were
to' have been attacked, several of these shieks sent us a letter, inform-
ing us that tbey remained faithful to their treaty, and denounced to
us those who had promised to march for the purpose of joining Mu-
rad ; but the encounter which they had had with 'our cavalry dncon-
certed their plans.

The sky was cloudy on the Htb, and we suffered from it as if it
were a sharp winter's day, though it would have been reckoned in
Europe fine April weather ; so much is the absence of a blessing con*
sklered as a positive evil ! On this day, however, which we com-
plained of so much, I saw a vine-stalk as green as in the month of
July ; the leaves in this country only harden, become red and dry*
whilst the end of the branch perpetually renews its verdure ; the
creeping peas do' the same, their stalks turn woody ; and I have
seen Some that were forty feet high, and had climbed to the summits
of trees.
• We learned also that there hatf arrived from Mecca, by the way of
Cosseir, an innumerable troop of foot soldiers to join Murad-Bey, and
that they were on their march to attack us.

On the 13th we were informed that our cavalry had fallen in with
a number of the enemy at Menshieth, had put to the sword a thou-
sand of those people, and had pursued their inarch. This was cer-
tainly not a lesson 6f fraternization ; but our position, perhaps, ren-
dered an act of severity necessary: this province,- which had tdways
the reputation of being very turbulent and formidable, required «to
be taught that it could not brave us with impunity ; it was besides
our policy to conceal from them, that our means were small, and our
resources dispersed ; and to give them the impression of our being as
vindictive when provoked as mild when treated with respect; and
that we should punish those severely who were disposed to doubt that
all we did was finally for their own good.

We prepared to march as' soon as our cavalry returned, whether our
flotilla was to come at last, or whether we should be obliged to give
it up altogether.

Still ho tidings of our cavalry on the 14th. We amused ourselves
with hearing Arabian tales, in order to kill time, and relieve our im-
patience. The Arabs relate stories so slowly, that our interpreters
could follow (hem almost without interrupting the narrative. Thef
retain the same passion for these 'tales as we have long been familiar
with in the thousand and one tales of the sultana Scherassade ; and
in this respect, Desaix and myself almost equalled the sultan; his
prodigious memory lost scarcely' a single phrase of what he had:
heard ; and I forebore to write them down,' as he promised to repeat
them to me from memory, iford for word. I observed, however,
that if these relations were not rich m natural images and just senti*
meat, (a merit which seems to belong exclusively* tc* the writers of
the north,) they abound in extraordinary events and interesting situ*
ations, occasioned by high and strong passions : these writers make

Digitized by

Google

80T THE LIFE OF

and the knowledge of this calamity spread terror and de-
spair throughout the army. It was in vain that the

abundant use of all the machinery of castles, iron grates, poisons,
daggers, rapes, night adventures, mistakes, treachery ; in short, all
that can embroil a narration, and appear to render the denouement
impossible, and yet the story always finishes very naturally and in the
clearest and most satisfactory manner. Such is the merit of the in-
ventor, and to this the narrator adds that of precision and declama-
tion, which are in high esteem with the audience ; thus it happens
that the same story is told by several relators successively with equal
interest and success ; one giving in a better style of declamation the
pathetic and amorous part ; another throwing more interest into the
battle scenes and those of horror ; and a third humouring the laugh-
able events : in short, it is their theatrical entertainment ; and as we
go to a play, the first time for the piece, and afterwards for particular
actors ; so with the Arabs, these repeated representations do not fa-
tigue the auditors. The tales are then followed with discussions ;
the parts which have excited applause are criticised, and thus the ta-
lents of the performers are brought to greater perfection ; and all those
who have acquired a high pitch of excellence in this art are in great
estimation, as they contribute to the happiness of a whole family or
even a horde. The Arabs have also their poets, even their impro-
visatores, who exhibit at great feasts, and they appear to be enchanted
with them, lhave beard them, but when their songs are not narra-
tive, they doubtless lose much by being translated : they seemed to
me to be only concetti, or a very insipid play upon words : these
poets too have very singular manners, and particular tricks or ges-
tures, distinguishing them from others, but give an appearance of
insanity that inspired me with pity and repugnance ; which was not
the case with the narrators of the tales, who appear to be gifted by
much more talent and nature.

Our delay ought to have distressed me less than others, since it
gave me time to attend to the inflammation in my eyes ; but 1 par-
took of the impatience of Desaix, who depended on the resources
our convoy bad on board, the absence of which paralysed his ope-
rations in every quarter, and left him in a distressing state of inaction.
Happily we had tew sick and wounded ; for the physicians, who were
without remedies, only looked on to tell them what should have
been done for them, and could administer nothing ; however we
established a hospital, ovens, and a magazine, and we had a barrack
sufficiently well fortified to be defended against any insurrection or
attack of the peasants, and to bold in security three hundred men, in
this little inlet of a post on the Nile.

The morning of the 15th was cold enough to make one wish for a
fire, but it was rather the dullness of a warm morning in May, for
on putting my head out of my window, I saw the birds alive and ac-
tive, and busy in making their nests : in the evening of this day it
thundered, a very rare occurrence in this country, as it scarcely hap-
pens oftener than once in a generation. The north wind, which is
the most constant of all those that prevail in this part of the world,
brings from the sea the clouds of a colder region, rolls them along

Digitized by

Google

napoleon bonapartb. qi

officers of health asserted that it was only a common
malady ; it spoke for itsslf.

through the valley of Egypt, where a burning sun rarefies them and
reduces them to vapour; when this vapour is driven into Abyssinia,
the south wind which crosses the lofty and cold mountains of the
country, sometimes brings back a few scattered clouds, which, as they
experience but little change of temperature when returning over the
humid valley of the Nile in flood-time, remain condensed, and at
some periods produce, without thunder or tempest, small hasty
showers. But, as the east and west winds, which are in general the
parents of storms, both cross burning deserts, which either absorb the
clouds, or raise the vapour to such a height as to be able to pass over
the narrow valley of Upper Egypt, without undergoing detonation by
the operation of the waters of the river, the phenomenon of thunder
becomes so rare an occurrence to the inhabitants of this country, that
even the thinking people who reside here do not attempt to assign to
it a physical cause. General Desaix having questioned a person of
the law in this place on the cause of thunder, he replied, with the
perfect confidence of conviction : * We know very well that it is an
angel, but so small in stature that he cannot be perceived in the air;
he has however the power of conducting the clouds of the Mediter-
ranean into Abyssinia, and when the wickedness of men is at its
height he makes his voice heard, which is a voice of menace and
reproach ; and as a proof that be has also the disposal of punishment,
he opons a little way the gate of heaven, whence dart out the light-
nings; but as the clemency of God is infinite, never is his wrath
carried further in Upper Egypt.'

It was a matter of surpnse to us to hear a sensible looking man,
with a venerable white beard, relate such a tale. Desaix wished to
explain to him in another manner this phenomenon, but the old man
thought it so inferior to his own, that he even did not take the trou-
ble to listen to him. It had by this time rained all night, which ren-
dered the streets muddy, Slippery, and hardly passable. Here finishes
the history of our winter, which I shall not again have occasion to
mention.

We had now set up ovens after the manner of the country, and
baked biscuit for ourselves. The Egyptians manage their ovens with
great skill and address ; for individual ly they are dexterous and indus-
trious, and as they have scarcely more tools to work with than any
savage, it is surprising how much they do with their fingers, the in-
struments they, are commonly reduced to employ ; and with their
feet, with which they assist their hands wonderfully. I know not
whether they can be made brave; but they are eminently sober, as
active on their legs as couriers, centaurs on horseback, and tritons in
swimming ; and yet four thousand French exercise absolute empire
over several millions of men, possessing such formidable qualities of
body ; so strongly impressed on the mind of some persons is the
habit of obedience, is that of command is on others, and this state

igitized by

Google

62 THfc LIFE OF

From this day, till the 7th of May, Napoleon made
almost daily attacks; they all failed, and their ill success

continues till one party slumbers over their abuse of power, until the
other at last awakes at the noise of his chains.

On the 18th of January our cavalry returned ; they brought us the
welcome news of the arrival of our barks, and gave us the particulars
of a battle which they had fought with several Mamelukes and their
allies, who had spread the intelligence that they had forced our po-
sition and defeated us, and that our cavalry were the wrecks Of the
French army, who were endeavouring to make good their return to
Cairo. Two thousand Arabs on horseback, and Ave or six thousand
peasants on foot, had intended to cut off our cavalry; and for this pur-
pose had advanced beyond Tata to meet them : when our troops
discovered them they began to form ; but the enemy supposing that
our cavalry would decline the combat, had charged. with their accus-
tomed disorder, that is to say, with some of the boldest in front, and
the rest in the middle, all striking and never parrying ; but at the
second discharge, the enemy, astonished to receive from cavalry : a
fire as well kept up as that of a battalion, began to give way, and
having lost forty of their men, with about a hundred wounded, they
, had .dispersed in different directions, deserting their poor infantry,
who! wjere as usual sabred, and Would have been entirely destroyed,
if night had not assisted their escape.

On the 20th our long expected boats came up ; when the supplies
which they 'brought, and- above ail, the music of one of our demi-
brigades playing favourite French airs gave us all such a surprising
sensation of delight at.Girgeh, that we forgot the fretting impatience
under which we had of late so much suffered. Alas, it was the song
of the menaced swan! but let us not anticipate events; in war time,
above all, the present moment must be enjoyed, since no one can
command that which is to succeed.

On the 21st, the advance-money and the brandy, with which we
were now supplied, gave a new pleasure to the life of the soldier,
who, already tired of eating his six eggs for a sous, set out with joy to
meet with fresh hardships.

We had been for twenty-one days tiring ourselves with inaction ; I
knew that I was near Abydus, where Osymandyas had built a temple,
and where Memnon had resided. I was constantly urging Desaix to
send thither a reconnoitring party as far as El-Araba, where I daily
heard there were several rums ; and as often Desaix said to me,
* I will conduct you thither myself ; Murad-Bey is two days* journey
from us, he will come up the day after to-morrow, and we shall then
give him battle ; and when we shall have beaten him, we can bestow-
as much time as you will on antiquities, and I will myself assist you
to measure them.' My good friend was certainly in 'the right, and
even if it were not so, 1 must have contented myself.

At length, on the 22d, we quitted Girgeh at the approach of night,
and passed directly opposite to the antiquities. Desaix dared not
look me in the face ; « If I am killed to-morrow/ said I to him, ' my

igitized by

Google

y

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 03

sensibly depressed the spirits of the army..- We now began
to believe that Bonaparte was not infallible, and the

ghost will be always haunting you, repeating in your ears El-Araba.'
in truth, he recollected my menace, for five months after be sent
from Siut an order for a detachment as an escort for me to El-Araba.

We arrived before a village, and it was not until next day we learnt
that it was called El-Besera, for in the evening there was not a single
inhabitant left to converse with. For my own part, I was not very
sorry to find these villages empty, as it prevented me from bearing
the cries of the inhabitants, from whom we were obliged to supply our
wants by force ; whereas when they were apprised of our coming
every thing was removed, even to the doors and window-cases ; and
a village thus stript only two hours before, had the appearance of a
ruin a century ola.

The next day, as I was setting out foremost on the march, having
the least to do, I was the first to perceive the Mamelukes, They
advanced towards us, showing a front of an immense extent. We
immediately formed in three squares, two of infantry for our wings,
and our cavalry in the centre, flanked with eight pieces of artillery on the
angles. In this order we marched, taking the rout to Samanhut, a
village of considerable elevation, below which we hoped to take a
good position. The Mamelukes now dividing their force, turned us,
m three points, and began to fire their pieces, and to set up their
war cries, before we even thought of. using our artillery. A body of
volunteers from Mecca were posted in a ravine between the village
and our army, and fired from under cover on the square of our
twenty-first. Desaix sent a detachment of infantry to dislodge tbem from
their trenches, and another of cavalry to pursue them when they were
driven out of their post. The cavalry, which was too eager, made
the attack prematurely and to disadvantage; one of our men was
killed, another wounded, and the aid-de-camp Rapp, received a sabre
wound, which would have brought him to the ground, had not a vo-
lunteer parried off four more .blows that were aimed at him : the
Mecca troop, however, was repulsed.

Chasseurs were now sent to the village to dislodge those of the
enemy who had taken post there ; the Mamelukes drew up to attack
our left, whilst another party threatened our right ; they had at one
time a favourable moment for charging us, but they hesitated, and
lost an opportunity which never again occurred. However, they
continued to prance round us, making a most brilliant display of
their glittering arms, and of their skill in horsemanship, in which they
exhibited all the oriental splendour ; but the rigid severity of our
northern discipline presented a spectacle equally formidable and com-
manding ; the contrast however was striking ; it was iron in battle
array against gold ; the whole plain sparkled with polished arms and
accoutrements, and the picture was beautiful. Our artillery fired on
the whole front of the enemy at once, who made a false attack on our
right, in which several of their men were killed. One of their leaders,
struck with a bullet, fell down too near us to be assisted by his own
people ; and whilst his foot hung in the stirrup, the horse, without
abandoning bis rider, would not let any one approach him ; but the

Digitized by

Google

64 ™E UFE OP

opinion became universal that the plaoe conldnot betaken
— a disappointment that greatly added to oar depression

cupidity of our marksmen was raised by the gold which glittered on
the dress of this unfortunate chief, who was thus dragged from place
to place by his charger, and made to undergo the horrors of death in
many forms.

Another party of chasseurs had been sent to Samanhut, to dislodge
the enemy from that village also. They soon effected their object,
and Murad himself was one of those that fled from that place, which
was the post of his reserve : he took the route to Farshiut. This
movement divided the whole of the enemy's army. Desaix took ad-
vantage of it to occupy the ground which they were quitting, and
ordered the cavalry to charge those that still remained on our right.
In an instant we saw them in the desert, gaining the first ascent of the
mountain with incredible speed : we thought that, when on this favour-
able position, they would halt, to make head against our cavalry, but
terror and disorder were among their ranks, and they only thought
of collecting together to protect their flight ; some of their stragglers
were killed and several camels taken, a small body fired separately
on our left, the firing ceased at noon, and at one o'clock* none of
our enemies were in sight. We directed our inarch to Farshiut,
which Murad- Bey had already abandoned.

This unfortunate town had been pillaged some hours before by the
Mamelukes. The sheik was a descendant of the sheiks Amman, who
were powerful sovereigns, much respected in Said, and in the begin-
ning of this century had reigned with equity, and been able to pro-
tect their subjects from the vexations of the Mamelukes. The pre-
sent sheik, who had been conquered by Murad, and was reduced to
a state of weakness and poverty, saw with pleasure his avengers
in us, and had prepared biscuit for our arrival ; but Murad, defeated
and obliged to fly, had sent for this old prince before be left Far-
shiut, loaded him with reproaches, and in his rage had cut off his
head with his own hand. When our troops arrived they completed the
pillage of the magazines ; the generate was beat to prevent this disorder,
out the whole army was equally in fault, and must have been punish-
ed : a forced march is in such cases immediately ordered, and to escape
the reproaches and clamour of the inhabitants, we set out at midnight.

The darkness was frightful, and the cold severe enough to oblige
us to light a fire every time that the artillery halted. As Desaix, his
aides-de-camp, and myself, were standing under the shelter of a wall
by one of our fires, we received a volley from some fusileers at the
top of the wall : they were some of the volunteers from Mecca who
still hovered about us, for it was our destiny to meet with them every
where ; they were twenty in number, and we killed eight of them ;
the others escaped, owing to the darkness of the night. These volun-
teers, who called themselves noble, wore the green turban, as de-
scendants of the race of A li :and the vagabond chevaliers, who existed
by plundering the caravans on the shore of Gidda, were now urged
by their noble zeal, and tempted by the dead time of year for their
usual occupation, to come and attack a European people, whom tliey

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 65

of spirits. Having breakfasted with Mnrat on the 7th
of May, I discovered, on going out of the tent, a sail on

they thought were covered with gold, • that would repay with an
ample booty for all their toils and hazards.

Armed with three javelins, a pike, a dagger, a brace of pistols, and
a carabine, they attack with boldness, resist with obstinacy ; and
though mortally wounded, seem astonishingly tenacious of life; for
in this last encounter, I saw one of them still strike at and wound two
of our men, whilst they were holding him nailed against a wall with
their bayonets.

We arrived at Haw an hour before sun-rise. The Mamelukes had
just left it ; one party of the beys had entered the desert with their
camels, to arrive at Esneh by this route in a day and a half, the rest
had followed the course of the Nile, which requires a journey of six
days.

Haw, or the ancient Diospolis Parva is in a fine military situation ;
but possesses no remains of antiquity.

Here we halted during the day, and set out an hour before night.
After being enlightened by the illusive splendour of an aurora borealis,
and waiting for the moon's rising till after ten, we arrived at eleven at
a large village, the name of which I could never learn, and where,
unfortunately for their reputation, and to the great misfortune of the
inhabitants, our soldiers behaved with shameful atrocity— We left
this place at the first dawn of day, on the 15th of January. The
tougue of cultivated land now became more narrow on the left bank
on which we were marching, but increased on the right bank in nearly
the same proportion.

At last we entered the desert, and we there saw a wild beast,
which from its size and remarkable form we took to be a hyena.
We pushed on to overtake it, but it ran from us as fast as we could
gallop, so that we were obliged to give up the pursuit.

We were now approaching Tentyra in our march ; and here I vent
tured to speak to Desaix of halting, but he answered me with some
ill-humour ; this displeasure, however, lasted but a moment, for soon
after, resuming his natural sensibility, he came to me, and partaking
of my love for the fine arts, showed himself even a warmer friend to
them' than myself. Endowed with a truly rare delicacy of mind, he
had united a love of all the amiable passions with an ardent thirst lb?
glory; and to a great extent of knowledge, whieh he already possessed,
he added a constant desire ot increasing the stores of his mind with
all the means of information which fell in his way, so that his active
curiosity rendered his society always agreeable, and his conversation
interesting,

We arrived at Tentyra. The first object which I saw was a small
temple on the left ot the road, in so bold a style and proportion
of architecture! that at a distance I took it to be the ruins of a
mosque. In turning back to the right, I found buried in a gloomy
heap of ruins a gate, built of enormous masses covered with hiero*
lypbics ; and through this gate I had a view of the temple. I wish

could here transfuse into the soul of my readers the sensation which
I experienced. I was too much lost in astonishment to be capable of
VOL. II.— 17. *

f

Digitized by

Google

(J6 THE LIFE OF

the horizon. I pointed it out, — in a few minutes a second
and third appeared, and we were all gaiety and spirits,

cool judgement; all that I had seen hitherto served here but to fix my
admiration* This monument seemed to me to have the primitive
character of a temple in the highest perfection. Covered with ruins
as it was. the sensation of silent respect which it excited in my mind
appeared to me a proof of its impressive aspect ; and without being
partial in favour of the antique, I may add, that the whole army
experienced similar feelings.

The ancient city of Tentyra was built on the borders of the desert,
on the lowest level of the Lybian chain, the foot of which is washed
bjt the waters of the inundation of the Nile at the distance of a league .
from its bed.

Nothing is more simple and better put together than the few lines
which compose this architecture. The Egyptians, borrowing nothing
from the style of other nations, have here added no foreign ornament,
no superfluity of materials : order and simplicity are the principles
which they have followed, and they have carried them to sublimity. At
this point they have stopped, and attached so much importance to
preserving a unity of design, that though they have loaded the walls
of these edifices with bas-reliefs, inscriptions, and historical and
scientific representations, none of those rich additions intersect a
single line of the general plan, all of which are religiously preserved
unbroken: the sumptuous and rich decorations, which appear to the
eye when close to the building, all vanish at a short distance, and
present full to view the grand elements of architectural composition,
which are dictated by sound reason. It never rains in this climate ;
all that is wanted therefore is a covering of plat-bands to give shade,
but beyond this, neither roof nor pediment are abided : the plain-slope
is the principle of solidity ; they have therefore adopted this form
for every main supporter, doubtless with the idea that stability is the
first impression that architecture should give, and is an essential con-
stituent'of that art. With these people, the idea of the immortality
of the Deity is presented by the eternity of his temple : these
ornaments, which are always rational, consistent, and significant,
demonstrate a steadiness of principle, a taste founded upon truth, and
a deep train of reasoning ; and if we even had not a full conviction of the
eminent height to which they had attained in the abstract sciences,
their architecture alone, in the state in which we now find it, would
give the observer of the present day a high opinion of the antiquity
of this nation, of its cultivation, aud the impressive gravity of its
general character.

I have already said, that I despair of being able to express all that
I experienced on standing under the portico of Tentyra. I felt that
I was in the sanctuary of arts and sciences. How many periods pre-
sented themselves to my imagination at the sight of such an edifice !
how many, ages of creative ingenuity were requisite to bring a nation
to such a degree of perfection and sublimity in the arts ! and how
many more of oblivion to cause these mighty productions to be for-
gotten, and to bring back the human race to the state of nature in

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLKON BONAPARTE 07

in the expectation that it was a French squadron. Alas,
so much the greater was odr disappointment, when we

which I now found them on this very spot ! Never was there a place
which condensed in a narrow compass such a well- marked memorial of
a progressive lapse of ages. What unceasing power, what riches, what
abundance, what superfluity of means must" a government possess
which could erect such an edifice, and find within itself artists capable
of conceiving and executing the design, of decorating and enriching
it with every thing that speaks to the eye and to the understanding !
Never did the labour of man show me the human race in such a
splendid point of view : in the ruins of Tentyra the Egyptians ap-
peared to me as giants.

These monuments, which imprinted on the mind the respect due
to the sauctuary of the Divinity, were the open volumes, in which
science has been unfolded, morality dictated, and the useful arts pro-
mulgated ; every thing spoke, every object was animated with the
same mind. The opening of the doors, the angles, the most private
recesses, still presented a lesson, a precept of admirable harmony;
and the lightest ornament on the. gravest feature of the architecture
revealed, under living images, the abstract truths of astronomy.
Painting added a further charm to sculpture and architecture, and
produced at the same time an agreeable richness,- which did not injure
either the general simplicity or the gravity of the whole. To all
appearance, painting, in Egypt, was then only an auxiliary orna-
ment, and not a particular art : the sculpture was emblematical, and,
if I may so call.it, architectural. Architecture, therefore, was the
great art, or that which was dictated by utility; and we may from
this circumstance alone infer the priority, or at least the superior
excellence . of the Egyptian over the Indian art, since the former,
borrowing nothing from the latter, has become the basis of all that is
the subject of admiration in modern art, and of what we have con-
sidered as exclusively belonging to architecture, the Greek orders,
the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian. We should, therefore, be cautious "*
of entertaining the false idea, which is so prevalent, that the Egyptian
architecture is the infancy of this art, since it is in fact the complete
type.

I was particularly struck with the beauty of the gate which closed
the sanctuary of the temple : all the ornaments which architecture
has since added to this species of decoration have only diminished
the general style.

I could not expect to find any thing in Egypt more complete,
more perfect, than Tentyra ; I was confused by the multiplicity of
objects, astonished by their novelty, and tormented by the fear of
never again visiting them. On casting my eyes on the ceilings I had
perceived zodiacs, planetary systems, and celestial planispheres, re-
presented in a tasteful arrangement; the walls I haa observed to be
covered with groups of pictures, exhibiting the religious rites of this
people, their labours in agriculture and the arts, and their moral pre-
cepts ; I saw that the Supreme Being, the first cause, was every where
depicted by the emblems of his attributes. Our national impatience
was dismayed with the constancy of application exhibited by the peo-

Digitized by

Google

68 THE LIFE Of

discovered it to be the Turkish fleet on its way to the
relief of Acre. This circumstance rendered it a matter

pie who bad executed these monuments ; throughout was shown
• equal care and equal assiduity, which would make one believe that
these edifices were not the works of their kings, but that they were
constructed at the expense of the nation, under the direction of col"
ileges of priests, and by artists whose labours were circumscribed by
nvariable rules. A series of years might, indeed, have brought the
arts to a higher degree of perfection in some particulars ; but each
temple is so equally finished in all its parts, that they appear to
have been executed by the same hand ; no one portion is better or
worse than another ; there appears neither negligence nor the bold
strokes of a more exalted genius, uniformity and harmony prevail
throughout. The art of sculpture, here made subservient and
attached to that of architecture, appears to have been circumscribed
in principle, in method, and in style of execution ; a single figure
expresses nothing when taken out of its exact station in the group of
which it forms a part; the sculptor had its design chalked out for him,
and could not introduce any deviation which might alter the true
meaning it was intended to convey ; it was with these figures as with
the cards that we use for our games, the imperfection of design is
overlooked, that no obstacle may arise in instantly distinguishing the
value of each. The perfection given by the .Egyptians to the re-
presentations of their animals proves that they were not without an
idea of that bold style which expresses much character in a few lines,
and their execution tended to the grave, and to ideal perfection, as
we have already remarked in the instance of the sphinx.

In regard to the character of the human figure, as they borrowed
nothing from other nations, they could only copy from their own, which
is rather delicate than fine. The female forms, however, resemble the
figure of beautiful women of the present day, round and voluptuous,
a small nose, the eyes long, halt shut, and turned up at the outer
angle, like those of all persons whose sight is habitually fatigued by the
burning heat of the sun, or the dazzling white of snow ; the cheeks
round and rather thick, the lips pouting, the mouth large, but cheer-
ful and smiling ; in short, the African character, of which the negro
is the exaggerated picture, though perhaps the original type.

The hieroglyphics, which are executed in three different manners,
are also of three species, and may have derived their dates from as
many distinct periods. From the examination of the different edifices
which have fallen under my eye, I imagine that the most ancient of
these characters are only simple outlines cut in without relief, and
very deep : the next in age, and which produce the least effect, are
simply in a very shallow relief; while the third, which seem to be*
long to a more improved age, and are executed at Tentyra more

fiertectly than in any other part of Egypt, are in relief below the
evel of the outline. By the side of the figures which compose these
tabular pieces of sculpture, there are small hieroglyphics, which
appear to be only the explanation of the subjects at large, and in
which the forms are much simplified, so as to give a more rapid mode

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. (}y

of imperious necessity to make an assault the sqme night;
Bonaparte accordingly issued orders, and the commanders
immediately prepared for action.

of inscription, or a kind of short-hand, if we may apply the term to
sculpture.

A fourth kind of hieroglyphics appears to be devoted simply to or-
nament: we have improperly termed it, I know not why, the ara-
besque, tt was adopted by the Greeks, in the age of Augustus intro-
duced among the Romans'; and in the fifteenth century, during the
restoration of the arts, was transmitted by them to us as a fantastic
decoration, the peculiar taste of which formed all its merit. Among
the Egyptians, who employed these ornaments with equal taste, every
object had a meaning or a moral, and at the same time formed the
decoration of the friezes, the cornices, and the surbasements of their
architecture.

I have discovered at Tentyra the representations of the peristyles
in caryatides, which are executed in painting at the baths of Titus,
and have been copied by Raphael, and which we constantly ape in
our rooms, without suspecting that we have derived the first models
of them from the Egyptians.

I passed from object to object, distracted from one by the inviting
appearance of the next ; constantly led to new subjects, and again torn
from them, I wanted eyes, hands, and intelligence vast enough to
see, copy, and reduce to some order, the multitude of striking
images which presented themselves before me. I was ashamed at
delineating such sublime objects by such imperfect designs, but I
wished to preserve some memorial of the sensations which 1 expe-
rienced, and I feared that Tentyra would escape from me for ever ;
so that my regret equalled my present enjoyment. 1 had just disco-
vered, in a small apartment, a celestial planisphere, when the last
rays of day-light made me perceive that I was accompanied only by
my kind and obliging friend General Beliard, who, after having sa-
tisfied his own curiosity, would not leave me unprotected in so de-
serted a spot.

We gal lopped on, and regained our division, which was already at
Dindera, three quarters of a league from Tentyra, where we slept.
Every soldier and officer, without giving or receiving orders, had
turned aside from the route, and hastened to Tentyra; and the army
had of its own accord remained there the rest of the day — a day
of such pleasure as to reward me for every danger incurred in ob-
taining it.

In the evening, Latouraerie, an officer of brilliant courage, and of
refined and delicate taste, said to me : " Since I have been in Egypt,
deceived in all my expectations, I have constantly felt heavy and
melancholy, but Tentyra has cured me ; what 1 have seen (his day
has repaid me for every fatigue ; all that may happen tome in the event
of this expedition, I shall during my life congratulate myself at hav-
ing embarked in it, and obtained a recollection of this day, which I
shall preserve for the residue of my existence."

We quitted Dindera on the S6tn of January, continuing our route

Digitized by

Google

70 THE LIFE 'OF

The attack was to be made at ten at night : and an
hoar or two previous I saw Colonel Boyer, who was to

southwards, following the direction of the Nile, in a course opposite
to its current. The country now exhibited a new scenery to our eyes :
we saw palm trees much larger than any we had hitherto met with,
gigantic tamarisks, villages half a league long, and vet the land, which
had received the benefit of the inundation, remained uncultivated.
Could it be that the inhabitants chose to grow no more than was suffi-
cient for their own consumption, and tnus deprive their tyrants of
the profit of their superfluity ? In the afternoon, as Desaix and myself
were talking about crocodiles, being near that part of the Nile where
they were met with, and opposite several low sand islands, their
favourite resort, we saw something long and brown lying among a
number of ducks ; it was a crocodile asleep ; it appeared from fifteen
to eighteen feet long. We fired, when it gently entered the water,
but some minutes after came out again ; a second shot made it re-
plunge in the stream, but it again returned to the island 5 the belly
appeared much larger than that of animals of the same species, which
I had seen stuffed.

We learnt that one party of the Mamelukes had passed along the
right bank of the river, and that the other continued its rpute to Es-
neh and Syene. Desaix ordered the cavalry to set forward at mid-
night and endeavour to come up with the latter.

We set out on the 27th, at two in the morning : at eight we found
a dead crocodile on the shore of the river , it was still fresh ; the
length was eight feet : the upper jaw, which is the only one having
any motion, seems to close but indifferently with the under, but the
throat supplies that deficiency, for it hangs as loose as a purse, and
its elasticity performs the office of a tongue, of which this animal is
entirely destitute ; the nostrils and ears shut like the ear-holes of a
fish, and its small close-set eyes add much to the (rightfulness of its
general appearance.

At nine o'clock, in making a sharp turn round the point of a pro-
jecting chain of mountains, we discovered all at once the site of anr
cient Thebes in its whole extent: this celebrated city, the size of
which Homer has characterised by the single expression of with a
hundred gates, a boasting and poetical phrase, that has been repeated
with so much confidence for so many centuries : this illustrious city,
described in a few pages dictated to Herodotus by Egyptian priests,
that have been since copied by every historian ; celebrated by the
number of its kings, whose wisdom has raised them to the rank of
gods : by laws which have been revered without being promulgated,
by science involved in pompoms and enigmatical inscriptions, the first
monuments of ancient learning which are still spared by the hand of
time: this abandoned sanctuary, surrounded with barbarism, and
again restored to the desert, from which it had been drawn forth, en-
veloped in the veil of mystery, and the obscurity of ages, whereby
even its own colossal monuments are magnified to the imagination,
still impressed the mind with such gigantic phantoms, that the whole
army, suddenly and with one accord, stood in amazement at the sight

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 71

lead the assault, walking with Bonaparte and receiving his
instructions. At ten precisely the assault commenced ;

of its scattered ruins, and the soldiery clapped their bands with delfght,
as if the end and object of their glorious toils, and the complete conquest
of Egypt, were accomplished and secured by taking possession of the
splendid remains of this ancient metropolis. The situation of this
city is as fine as can well be imagined, and the immense extent of its
ruins convinces the spectator that fame has not magnified its size ; for
the diameter of Egypt not being sufficient to contain it, monuments
rest upon the two chains of mountains which are contiguous, whilst
its tombs occupy the vallies towards the west, extending far into the
desert.

Four large hamlets divide amongst them the remains of the ancient
monuments of Thebes, whilst the river, by the sinuosity of its course,
seems still proud of flowing through and watering its stupendous
ruins.

Soon after noon-day we arrived at a desert, which was the Necro-
polis or city of the dead : the rock, excavated on its inclined plane,
presents three sides of a square, with regular openings, behind which
are double and triple galleries, used as burying places. I entered
here on horseback, with Desaix, supposing that these gloomy retreats
could only be the asylum of peace and silence ; but scarcely were
we im merged in the obscurity of these galleries, when we were as*
sailed with javelins and stones, by enemies whom we could not dis-
tinguish, and this put an end to our observations. We since learned
that a considerable number of people inhabited these obscure retreats,
and that probably, from the savage habits contracted there, they were
almost always in rebellion against authority, and had became the ter-
ror of the vicinity. Too much in haste to make a fuller acquaintance
with the inhabitants, we marched back with precipitation, and this
time I only saw Thebes on the gallop.

It had been my lot to stay for months at Zaoyeh, at Benesuef, and
Girgeh, and to pass by without stopping at the magnificent objects
which I had come to visit. We arrived presently after at a temple,
which I took to be of the highest antiquity, from its ruinous appear-
ance, its thorough antique hue, its constructions which was less per-
fect than the rest, the extreme simplicity of its ornaments, the irregu-
larity of its outline, and especially the coarseness of its sculpture.
Galloping after the troops, who were constantly marching on, I arrived '
at a second edifice much more considerable, and in a better state of
preservation. I found in my way a statue of black granite : I call
it granite, till it shall be determined what is the nature of that stone
which has been long denominated basalt, and which is the material of
. the magnificent Egyptian lions, placed at the foot of the flight of
steps leading to the Koman Capitol.

At the entrance of this temple two square mounds flank an immense
gate, and against the inner wall are engraved, in two bas-reliefs, the
victorious combats of some hero. This piece of sculpture is in the
most irregular style of composition, without perspective, plan, or distri-
bution, like the first conceptions of the unimproved human mind. I have

Digitized by LjOOQIC

72 THE LIFE OF

Colonel Boyer, at the head of his grenadiers, forced the
trenches, and lodged himself in the tower. But he was

seen at Pompeia rude sketches executed by Roman soldiers on the
stucco of the walls ; they entirely resembled in style those of which
I am now speaking, being like the first attempts of a child, before he
has seen any thing whereby to arrange his ideas. Here the hero is
gigantic, and the enemies whom he is overthrowing are twenty-five
times smaller than himself; if this however could be meant for a piece
of flattery in the arts, it was certainly ill-contrived, since the hero
could gain no honour by overcoming pygmies.

At some paces from this gate are the remains of an enormous co-
lossus ; it has been wantonly shattered, for the parts which are left
have so well preserved their polish, and the fractures their edges,
that it is evident, if the spirit of devastation in mankind had trusted to
time alone to ruin this monument, we should still behold it entire
and uninjured. Suffice it to say, in order to convey an idea of its
dimensions, that the breadth of the shoulders is twenty-five feet,
which would give about seventy-five for the entire height : the figure
is exact in all its proportions, the style middling, but the execution
perfect ; when overset, it fell upon its face, which hides this interest-
ing part ; the drapery being broken, we can no longer judge by its
attributes whether it is the figure of a king or a divinity. Is it the
statue of Memnon, or that of Osymandyas ? — the descriptions hitherto
given of this monument throw more confusion than light upon the
question. If it is the statue of Memnon, which appears to me the
more probable, every traveller for two thousand years must have
mistaken the object of his curiosity, as will be seen by the inscription
of the names on another colossal statue, of which 1 shall presently
speak.

One foot of this statue remains, which is broken off and in good
preservation ; it may be easily carried away, and afford the curious
in Europe a scale of comparison of the monuments of (his species, and
will serve as a companion to the colossal feet which are in the court of
the Capitol at Rome. The spot where this figure stood might be
either a temple or a palace, or both at the same time ; for if the bas-
relief would belong more properly to a royal residence, the figures of
eight priests, which are in the front of two porticoes in the inner part,
would peculiarly indicate a. temple, except indeed they were intro-
duced to remind the sovereign that, conformably to the law, the
priests ought always to serve and assist in the exercise of monarchical
power.

This ruin, which is situated on the slope of the mountain, and has
never been inhabited in later times, is so well preserved in the parts
that are still standing, that it appears more like a new and unfinished
building : several columns are seen here to their very bases, their
proportions are grand, but the style, though purer than that of the
first mentioned temple, is however not comparable to that of Tentyra,
either for the majesty of the general design, or for the delicacy in
the execution of particular parts. It would have taken some time and
examination to have designed the plan of this temple, but the ca-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 73

again attacked by an overwhelming force; the Colonel
and many of lib officers were killed, and the assault failed.

Talry were galloping on, and I was obliged to follow them closely, not
to be for ever stopped in my researches.

Our attention was arrested in the plain by two large statues, in a sit-
ting posture, between which, according to Herodotus, Strabo, and
those who have copied the relation of these writers, was the famous
statue of Osvmandyas,the largest of all these colossal figures. Osy-
mandyas had prided himself so much on the execution of this bold
design, that he caused an inscription to be engraven on the pedestal
of the statue, in which he defied the power of man to destroy this
monument, as well as that of his tomb, the pompous description of
which now appears only a fantastic dream. The two statues still left
are doubtless those of the mother and the son of this prince, men-
tioned by' Herodotus ; that of the king himself has disappeared, the
hand of time and the teeth of envy appear to have united zealously
in its destruction, and nothing now remains but a shapeless rock % of
granite; so that it requires the persevering look of the amateur, ac-
customed to this kind of examination, to distinguish any portions of
the figure which have escaped destruction ; and even those are so in-
significant, that they can throw no light on its dimensions. The two
statues still existing are in the proportion of from fifty to sixty-five
feet in height ; they are seated with their two hands on their knees ;
all that remains of tnem shows a severity of style, and a straightness of
position. The bas-reliefs and the small figures clustered round the
seat of the southernmost of these statues, are not without elegance
and delicacy in the execution. On the leg of the statue the most to
the north, the names of the illustrious and ancient travellers who
came to hear the sound of the statue of Memnon are written in
Greek. We may here see the great influence which celebrity exer-
cises over the minds of men, since when the ancient Egyptian go-
vernment and the jealousy of the priests no longer forbade strangers
to touch these monuments, the love of the marvellous retained its
empire over the minds of those who came hither as visitors. Thus,
in tne age of Adrian, which was enlightened by philosophy, Sabina,
the wife of this emperor, and herself a literary woman, condescended,
along with the learned men who accompanied her, to acknowledge
that she had beard sounds which no physical cause could have pro-
duced, • But the vanity of inscribing one's name on such antiquities
might very easily have produced the first on the list, and the natural
desire of becoming an associate in this kind of glory might have ad-
ded the rest, and this is doubtless the reason of the numberless inscrip-
tions of names which we find here, with so many dates, and in so
many languages.

I had hardly taken a glimpse of these colossal figures when I
found that I was left alone with the stupendous originals. Being
alarmed at my unprotected situation, I hastened to rejoin my com*
rades, whose eager curiosity had already led them to a large temple
near the village of Medinet-Abu. I observed as I passed by, that
the ground about the tomb of Osymandyas was cultivated, and that
consequently the inundation reached as for: so that although the

TOL. II,*— 18. L

Digitized by

Google

74 THE LIFE OF

This was followed, the next day, by another at-
tempt, still more desperate, bat which equally proved

bed of the Nile was raised, there must formerly have been some
dike to prevent the water from flooding part of the ancient town,
which, when we crossed it, was a vast field of green wheat, promising
an abundant harvest.

At the right, adjoining the village of Medinet-Abu, at the bottom
of the mountain, is a vast palace, built and enlarged at different pe-
riods. All that 1 could ascertain respecting it, in this first examina-
tion on horseback, was, that the lower part of the palace, which,
abutting against the mountain, is the most ancient in its construction,
and covered with hieroglyphics, cut very deep and without any re-
lief; that in the fourth century, the catholic religion converted it to
sacred purposes, and made a church of it, adding two rows of pillars
in the style of that age, to support a covered roof. To the?south of
this monument are the Egyptian apartments, with ladders and square
windows, the only building that I had yet seen here which was not a
temple ; and beyond this are edifices rebuilt with old materials, but
left unfinished. The first eagerness of curiosity being satisfied, De-
saix led us off at full gallop, as if there had been Mamelukes on the
plain, and we went two leagues farther that nifeht, till we reached
Hermontes, where we slept, I having a temple for my lodging.

The figure of Typhon or Anubis was so often repeated in the edi-
fice where I had taken ud mv abode, that I concluded the whole to
have been dedicated to him. fie is represented standing up, with a belly
like a pig, and breasts similar to those of the Egyptian women of the
present day. Two hundred yards to the east of this temple is a
large reservoir, lined with fiqe stone, with four ladders for the purpose
of descending into it.

Four hundred yards further, in the same direction, are the remains
of a church, built in the fourth or fifth century, out of the ruins of the
finest Egyptian antiquities, the nave was decorated with splendid co-
lumns of granite, but the whole is overthrown, and nothing left stand*
ing but a few fragments of the choir, and the arches of the outer
enclosure : this destruction has been effected by the hand of man, for
the church was too well built not to have resisted the ravages of time
to the present day.

At night I returned to mv quarters, with my head confused by the
multifarious objects which baa passed before my eyes m so short a
space of time. I felt as if I had been in a dream during the whole of
this rich day ; since I could have found delicious and abundant food
for curiosity during a whole month, in seeing what I had been obliged
to pass over in twelve hpurs, and without having had it in my power to
devote any part of the succeeding day to reflection.

In the morning of the 28th, I saw a tamarisk of an enormous size,

Elanted on the bank of the Nile : it had been loosened at the root
y progressive inundations, and at last overthrown ; the greater num-
ber of its roots had ranged themselves upright, and produced leaves ;
the* old branches on which the tree had fallen were fixed in the earth, and
served ^as a footstool, so that the enormous trunk, which remained sus-
pended horizontally, by a confusion in the system of circulation, vegetat-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 75

abortive. On the 10th, Kleber having arrived at the
camp, Bonaparte said to him,—** The victory will belong

edin every direction, and gave it such a grotesque appearance, that the
Turks had not failed to make a miracle of this vegetable monster.

At our halt We found another contraction of the Nile. The Lybian
chain, turning suddenly towards the east, forces the stream against the
Arabian chain. The river, contracted between these two obstacle,
has overcome that which offered the least resistance, and the current
ha*, in its various swells, undermined and worn through a bed of
gravel which opposed its course, below the level of the base of the
Lybian bank ; the upper part, thus deprived of support, having torn
itself off by its weight from the adjoining portion of the hill ; the rent
has formed two projecting points of rock. This rock, which is called
Gibelin* or the Two Mountains, serves as a boundary to one of the
subdivisions of Upper Egypt ; and under the late government became
a barrier for the rebel beys, who were banished into Upper Said, a bar-
rier which the exiles could not pass without forfeiting t he protec-
tion of the law. Some years back, Osman-Bey, after being sent to Cot-
seir, accompanied by men who were secretly charged to murder him,
instead of embarking the Bey for Mecca, to which place he was sentenced
to be exiled, prevented the plans of his assassins, so that he possessed
himself of the vessel, which was richly laden, escaped into Upper
Egypt, and assembled a party of Mamelukes in his favour, who
obliged Murad to come to terms, and to cede to him the sovereignty
of all the country between Gibelin and Syene.

After this contraction of the channel of the Nile, the valley expands,
without any improvement being apparent in agriculture. We saw
large plains, worn by the current of the waters, waiting in vain for
the seed which they would have returned to the cultivator with a
vast increase.

On the 29th, we arrived early in the morning at Esneh, the last
town of any importance in Egypt. Murad had been obliged to eva-
cuate the place a few hours before the arrival of our cavalry, and to
burn a number of his tents and all his heavy baggage, which would
have encumbered and slackened his march. We therefore had rea-
son to suppose that he was determined to quit Egypt, and to bury
himself in Nubia, in the hope of wearying us out, and dividing our
forces: for as the country affords no resources for the supply of a
large body of men marching together, he might hope to be able there
to rally his forces, and advance by the desert to attack our detach*
ments.

Esneh is the ancient Latopolis. Some remains are still visible of its
port or quay on the bank or the Nile, which has been often repaired,
out notwithstanding all that has been done, it still remains in a very
miserable condition. This town also contains the portico of a tem-
ple, which appears to me to be the most perfect monument of ancient
architecture. It is situated near the bazaar in the great square, and
would make an incomparable ornament to this spot, had the inhabi-
tants any idea of its merit ; but, instead of this, they have deformed it
by the most miserable ruined hovels, and devoted ft to the vilest pur-
poses. The portico is very well preserved, and possesses great richness of

Digitized by

Google

70 THE LIFE OF

to the most obstinate/' and accordingly resolved to make
another effort. It had the same ill success as the preceding*

sculpture ; and is composed of eighteen columns with broad capitals ;
these pillars are noble and elegant, though they now appear in the
most disadvantageous light ; the rubbish should be cleared away, in
order to find whether any part of the cella remains.

The hieroglyphics in relief, with which it is covered within and
without, are executed with great care ; they contain, among other
subjects, a zodiac, and large figures of men with crocodiles' heads :
the capitals, though all differing, have a very fine effect ; and as an
additional proof that the Egyptians borrowed nothing from other peo-
ple, we may remark, that they have taken all the ornaments, of which
these capitals are composed, from the productions of their own coun-
try, such as the lotos, the palm-tree, the vine, the rush, &c. &c.
I did not quit this temple till it was absolutely necessary to pursue
our route ; we left half our infantry and our artillery at Esneh, in
order to march with less incumbrance through a country, the re-
sources of which were diminishing every league, and soon dwindled to
little or nothing. We slept three leagues and a half short of Esneh.

On the 30th, after marching three hours, we found, at the distance
of three-quarters of a league from the river, on the edge of the desert,
a small pyramid, fifty or sixty feet in the base, built with unhewn
stones, but too small to have been able to preserve their place, and
thus the facing has beemhattered from top to bottom.

At half after two, a little before our arrival at Etfu, we found the
ruins of Hieraconpolis, which consist of the remains of a gate belong-
ing to an edifice of considerable magnitude, if we may judge from
the dimensions of the stones, the extent of ground occupied by the
fragments, and the diameter of the defaced capitals, which* are seen
scattered on every side. The stone of which this temple is built is
of so friable a quality, that the form of the edifice is entirely lost, and
none of the plan can be made out. Some yards further on, the ruins
of another building can with difficulty be distinguished, owing to the
great decay ; the other remains of the town are only a few heaps of
highly burnt bricks and some vestiges of granite.

We saw on the other side of the river, two hundred Mamelukes
come down along with their attendants and equipage; we since
learned, that it was Edfey-Bey, who, being wounded at Samanhut,
had not chosen to pass the cataracts with the other beys. We were
struck with admiration at the fine and advantageous site of Apollino-
polis Magna ; it commanded the river and the whole valley of Egypt ;
and its magnificent temple towered over the rest like a large citadel,
that keeps the adjacent country in awe. This comparison is indeed,
so naturally suggested by the situation of the structure in question,
that it is only known to the natives by the name of the Fortress. I
foresaw with regret that we should only enter thej town late, and quit it
early in the morning, therefore I pushed on to gain a little time to exa-
mine it before day-light entirely left us. During this visit I had only
time to ride round this edifice, the extent, majesty, magnificence, and
high preservation of which, surpassed all that I had yet seen in Egypt,
or elsewhere ; it made an impression on me as vast as its own gt-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 77

Colonel Venous, of the 25th Of the line, happening to pass
Marat, pressed his hand, saying — " Either Acre will fall

gantic dimensions. This building is a long suite of pyramidal gates,
of courts decorated with galleries, of porticoes, and of covered naves,
constructed not with common stones, but entire rocks. Night came
on before I bad time to visit the whole of this surprising monument,
and I again regretted the necessity of passing over with so much ra-
pidity what merited such high admiration. The excellent preservation
of this ancient building forms a wonderful contrast with the grey ruins of
modern habitations erected within its vast enclosure ; a part of the

E'ation is contained in huts built in the courts, and around the
ents of the temple ; which, like swallows' nests in our houses,
them without concealing or injuring their general appearance.
Besides, this singular medley, that hurts the eye at first sight, pro-
duces a picturesque contrast, which at once gives a scale of compa-
rison, both for men and for the lapse of time ; and, after all, we have
no right to think it absurd for ignorant people to shelter their feeble
huts against splendid objects, which have never once attracted their
curiosity, whilst, in France, we suffer the amphitheatre of Nismes to
remain encumbered with hovels and heaps of rubbish.

Below Etfu, the cultivated country grows very narrow ; so that
there is only a quarter of a league in breadth between the desert and
the river. At noon we halted on. the banks of the Nile : the cavalry
had preceded us, but, at the moment when we were setting out, we
ascertained that we had a desert of seven leagues to cross ; the day •
was too far advanced to allow us to undertake so long a march, and
we therefore stopped the rest of the evening in a desolated village,
where fortunately we found wood.

On the 31st, we continued our march at thiee in the morning.
Alter passing, for an hour, through a cultivated country, we entered
the desert by a mountain composed of decayed slate, free-stone,
white and rose-coloured quart*, and brown flint, with several white
carnelians. Having marched five hours in the desert, our soldiers
had their shoes torn, and were obliged to envelope what linen they
could about their feet, and were also tormented with a burning thirst.
No water could be found but in the Nile, which was a league out of
our way, for the banks were as arid as the desert ; the urgency of
thirst, however, prevailed, and we arrived at the river, exhausted with
fatigue ; but the camp equipage, the draft animals which had had no
food the night before, were so weakened by hunger, that few of them
were able to follow. Conceive, however, the general distress when
it was announced that there was nothing to eat 1 We looked at each
other in mute consternation ; but, after a while, a camel with a light
load of butter came up, with some others, whose provision-sacks had
been already emptied ; but by shaking out the dust of meal from the
bags, and rummaging every corner, we found sufficient to make a
distribution of a handful of flour to each : we then procured firing
from a neighbouring tree, made our flour into fritters, employment
drove away our gloomy ideas, when French gaiety soon prevailed,
and restored to us our usual courage. We briskly set forward after
our refreshment ; but our poor horses, who had not regaled upon

Digitized by

Google

78 IHB LIFE OF

to night* or Z return bo more." Acre did act fell, and
Ike Colmel kept Us word. This last business was m-

rrftters, fell down from under us through exhaustion : we could do
nothing but lead and support them with our hands, or else we must
have abandoned them ; in short, we were compelled to march, neces-
sity alone made it practicable, and how many resources are contained
m that single vrord—nebessity.

Half an hour after we had passed the first deceit, we came to the
ruins af Sihilis, which consist of broken fragments, bricks, and the
remains of a temple, the highest walls of which are now not more
than three feet above the level of the soil. One can just discover
that the nave of the temple, covered with hieroglyphics, was sur-
rounded by a gallery, to which, in a later period, a portico without
hieroglyphics had been added. We returned a third time into the
desert, when a hyena followed the column for a considerable time.

The rocks here become granite, with flints of every colour and
species, whose hardness would render them susceptible of a high
polish : I afs6 found carnelian, jasper, and serpentine : the sand is
formed of small fragments of all the primitive and constituent parts of
the granite. We arrived at an elevated stage of the mountain, where
we discovered a vast extent of country through which the Nile flows
in a winding course ; this river, after running along the Mokatam,
returns to the north-West, and again changes its course to north. At
this angle the ruins of a pharos may be perceived, which perhaps
served as a light-house for this winding channel ; at the other angle the
heights of Ombos are apparent, with the fine monuments on its sum-
mit ; at the elbow of the river one of its branches forms an inundated
island, which, from this circumstance alone, is worth more than twenty
square leagues of the neighbouring country, and its situation protects
it from the incursion of the Mamelukes, as it now did from our visit.
The inhabitants of the shore retired to it on our approach, abandoning
to us the large village of Binban, which skirts the desert, being equally
gloomy in appearance, and where we arrived, after a march of eleven
nours. The drove of oxen which followed us had gone astray, and
we had to wait for it, with the constant fear of its being carried off.
The village offered nothing but a few walls, which we ransacked to
their very foundations. Here I was witness to a scene which presented
a striking contrast of savage brutality and the kindest sensibility.

Whilst I was. looking at our people, whose necessities were as inge-
nious in bringing to light, as the care of the natives had been in con-
cealing, a soldier issued from a cave, dragging after him a she-goat,
which he had forced out ; he was followed by an old man, carrying
two young infants, who set them down on the ground, fell on his
knees, and, without speaking a word, pointed, with tears in his eyes,
to the young children, who must perish if the goat was taken away
from them. But want, which is both deaf and blind to other distress,
does not stay its murderous hand for any entreaty, and the goat was
killed. At the same moment another soldier came up, holding in his
arms a child, whose mother doubtless had been compelled to desert
her infant in effecting her flight ; and this humane and brave fellow,

Digitized by

Google

^KAPOLBON BONAPARTE. *jy

deed most desperate : General Boa was mortally wounded
by a hall which passed immediately through his body,
and Eagone Beanharnais, Lamas, Doroc, and Airoghi,
were also wounded* Under these fatal oiremastances
the assault net only failed, but Bonaparte's obstinacy waa
overcome, and it was at length resolved that the siege
should be abandoned.

AH the war-commissaries immediately received orders
to remove to Taatoura the waunded of their divisions,
from which they were to take such means of transport aa
should be required. Bat how diffioult waa it to procure
them ! I have already said that selfishness is the feeling
which predominates in an army. The officers showed little
readiness to give up their horses; and to fulfil these in-
structions it was necessary to take away, by main force,
the cattle of the suttlecs and the asses of the soldiers,
who could not compel their property to be respected , and
who revenged themselves for the violence which was
practised upon them by uttering a thousand reproaches.
After all, these means were insufficient ; for there were,
in our hospitals, and particularly in Mount Camel, sick
and wounded not in a state to perform the journey in any
other manner than in a litter. The greater number were
attacked with the plague, and their removal required at
least eight men to relieve each ether upon the road. I
know it was said, that, for the uncertain preservation of
a single and plague-stricken subject, we must expose
eight, or even twelve, men to the almost inevitable effect*
of a soourge whose progress was so rapid. I was a wit*
nesa to the horror which this fatal resolution inspired ;

notwithstanding the weight of his musket, cartridges, knapsack,, and.
the fatigue resulting from a four-days' forced march, had picked up
this little forsaken baby, carefully, transported k for four leagues in
his arms, when, not knowing what to do with it in this deserted village,
seeing only one inhabitant kft behind, with two children, fhe gently
deposited his charge beside them, and departed, with the- delight&il
expression irradiating his cou iterance, of one thoroughly convinced
that he has performed a benevohnt and Christian action.

Digitized by

Google

eo THE LIFE OF

a resolution which foresight might certainly have avoided.
Nevertheless it belongs to the rectitude of my feelings ;
it is due to the frankness, to the simplicity with, which I
have hitherto related all that I saw, to declare that I
have no other proofs of the poisoning our wounded but
the conversations which I heard disseminated through
the army.

At Tentoora, which the forces reached in their re-
treat, May 21st, 1799, I first saw the plague in its most
frightful character. Our sick and wounded were trans-
ported thither from the hospitals at Kerdanne and Mount
Carmel. From Tentoura they were carried in small ves-
sels to Jaffa, and from thence to Damietta. There were
still in the cabins upon the shore some poor wretches who
were waiting to be removed. Among them, a soldier
was seized with the plague; and in the delirium, which
sometimes accompanies the agony, he conjectured, with-
out doubt, upon viewing the army march at beat of drum,
that he was to be abandoned ; his imagination led him to
perceive the extent of his misery if he fell into the hands
of the Arabs. One may suppose that it was this fear
which put him into so great an agitation, and suggested
the idea of following the troops. He took bis knapsack,
upon which his head was resting, and, placing it upon his
shoulders, made an effort to rise. The venom of the
dreadful malady, that circulated in his veins, deprived
him of strength, and after three steps he again fell upon
the sand, headlong. The fall increased his terror ; and,
after having lain some moments, looking with a wild
glance at the tail of the columns which were on the march,
he rose a second time, but with no better success : in his
third effort he sunk, and, stretched near the sea, remained
upon that spot which fate had destined to become his grave.
The sight of this soldier was frightful : the disorder that
reigned in his senseless speech, — his figure, which pre-
sented every thing that is mournful,— his eyes staring
and fixed,— clothes in rags, portrayed all that is most

Digitized by

Google

NAP0LE6N BONAPARTE. 81

hideous in death. The reader may, perhaps, believe that
his comrades most have been concerned for him ; that
they stopped to help him ; that they hastened to support
his tottering footsteps. Far from this : the poor wretch
was only an object of horror and derision. They ran
from him as from the disease which he was enduring,
and they burst into load laughter at his motions resem-
bling those of a drunken man. He has got his account !
cried. one. He will not march far! said another. And
when the wretch fell for the last time, some of them added,
See, he has taken up his quarters ! This terrible truth,
which I cannot help repeating, must be acknowledged :
— indifference and selfishness are the predominant feel-
ings throughout an army.

On the l?th of May, happening to go to the ditch, I
found a proclamation of Sir Sidney Smith, which the
besiegers had thrown into the trenches, in order that it
might become public among our soldiers. It was an
appeal to them against Bonaparte, and the government
of France, and is therefore to be regarded as contrary
to the usages of war and of nations.'

We reached Jaffa, May 25th, and halted there till the
27th. On the 28th, we resumed our march, and, on the
following day, re-entered Egypt ; such having been the
termination of this disastrous expedition.

Bonaparte was not unacquainted with the rumours that
had been circulated concerning the fate of tbe army
returning from Syria,* and it was undoubtedly with the

• One day, after dinner, says Comte Las Cases, the Emperor
amused himself with perusing Jouinville's account of the Egyptian
expedition, performed by Saint Louis. He then entered upon an
analysis, describing the faults committed, and comparing the plans
then adopted with those he had himself pursued, when he concluded
by deciding that, in case he had followed the same line of conduct
as that resorted to by Saint Louis, he must have infallibly experienced
a similar destiny. On another occasion, the same interesting writer
says, that Napoleon, one evening, occupied his hours with reading
same chapters in the Bible, when he remarked, that the perusal was

VOL. II.— 18. M

Digitized by

Google

82 THE LIFE OF

intention of destroying the aad impressions which these
exaggerated reports had occasioned, that, on his arrival,
he published, through the Divan of Cairo, the proclama-
tion from whence I am about to give the most singular
passages, upon which, however, it is not my purpose to
offer any reflections they might naturally excite.

" The councils are ordained by the law.

" He is arrived at Cairo, the well attended, the Chief
of the French army, General Bonaparte, who loves the
religion of Mahomet * He rests with his soldiers at

edifying, but that, in Europe, people would little believe he was so
employed. He read, says the Comte, the Book of Judith, observing,
at every place, town, or village, which he recapitulated by name,—
" There I xoas encamped; that post I took by assault; on this spot I
gave battle," &c. &c.

• Much having been adduced respecting Bonaparte's ideas of
Mahometanlsm, when in Egypt, we give the following extracts from
the Journal of Count Las Cases, being the words of Napoleon.

The Emperor then referred to Egypt, and was very jocose on the
subject of his having represented himself as the inspired and envoy of
God.

" It was a deception," said he, " though of an exalted nature. But
it was merely intended, that the fraud should be recorded in beautiful
Arabic verses, by one of their most skilful sheiks. My troops," .
added Napoleon, " laughed at the idea, and their thoughts upon the
subject' were such in Italy and in Egypt ; that in order to bring them
to attend to the dictates of religion, I was compelled to treat the sub-
ject lightly, placing Jews on a level with Christians, and rabbins
with bishops/9

Las Cases then says, it is, however, false, as stated by Goldsmith,
that Bonaparte ever dressed himself as a Mussulman ; and if he en-
tered a mosque, it was always as a conqueror, and never as a convert.
For the truth of this assertion, I refer to the campaigns of Egypt ; be
was, on the contrary, too austere, and possessed too much respect for
himself to have ever permitted any thing of an equivocal tendency to
escape him upon such a subject.

"Yet after all," observed the Emperor, gaily, "it is not, how-
ever, impossible, but circumstances might have led me to embrace
Islamism ; but then it would have been an excellent omen ; as, in that
case, I must have advanced as far as the Euphrates. Apostasy, which
cannot be excused as regards personal interest, might be tolerated
under the consideration of immense results of a political nature.
Henry the Fourth wisely said, Paris is vwrth a mass; and will it be
asserted, that the empire of the East, and perhaps the subjugation <*f
all Asia, were not equivalent to a turban and a pair of trowsers ; for,
to speak rationally, the whole reduces itself to that. The great sheilfcs
had studied to give us fair play, they had smoothed the rugged paths ;

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 83

Kubbe,< safe and in perfect health* thanking God for the,
many favours which he has heaped upon him. We entered.

they tolerated wine, and exempted us from every bodily custom ;
all, therefore, that we had to lose were a pair of breeches* and a bat.
I say we, for the army, organized as it was, would most undoubtedly
have acquiesced and regarded the matter as a laughable joke. Yet
mark the consequences ! I should have reversed the affairs of Europe ;
its ancient civilization remained as it were fettered, and who would
have dreamed of disturbing the destinies of France, or that of the
regeneration of our age?"

Having thus quoted Bonaparte's words in regard to me religion of
Mahomet, we will now refer to his tenets as a Christian, quoting his
sentiments from Las Cases'.

" To say from whence I came, wliat I am, and whither I shall go,
is above my comprehension, and yet the whole is, I am the living
watch that knows not itself. Notwithstanding all this, religious feel-
ings are so consolatory, that the possessing them is a benefit bestowed
by heaven* What resources is it not capable of affording us in death ?
What power could men or things have over me, if, regarding my
reverses and sufferings as the ordinances of God, 1 did not await a
recompense hereafter) What would not be due to me, who have
figured in such an extraordinary and stormy career, without commit-
ting a single crime, and I had it in my power to be guilty of so
many ! Never did the idea of assassination, poisoning, or an unjust
and premeditated death, so common with those who have acted such
a part as mine, ever once take possession of my thoughts. All I
aimed to acquire was, the glory, the power, and. the lustre of France.
All my faculties, my energies, and my moments tended to that end.
Certainly that cannot be deemed a crime ; I only regarded them as
virtues ! What, then, will be -my joy, if the bliss, of a future state
presents itself to crown the termination of my existence/' &c.

Further on, Napoleon said, " There is no doubt, but, in quality of
Emperor, my incredulity was a blessing for the people, since how
.could I otherwise have tolerated every worship i How could I have
shown eoual favour to such a contrariety of sectaries, if I had been
governed by one only? - How should t have preserved an indepen-
3eoce of thought, and action, uoder?the control of a confessor, who
would have governed me by the dread of hell's torments ? What an
empire may not the most ignorant of mankind, under such a title,
: exert over those deputed to govern nations? Is it not in such case the
candle-snuffer who may, behind the scenes, move at his pleasure the
Hercules of an opera ? Who can, for a moment, doubt, out that the
.conclusive, years of the life of Louis the Fourteenth would have

r roved very different, had he been governed by another Confessor ?
was so thoroughly convinced upon this head, that I had determined
to do all in my power, in order that my son might imbibe religious
principles similar to those that have governed me," &c. &c.

The Emperor, says Las Cases, concluded this conversation by
sending my son to fetch the Testament, which he read aloud from
the beginning, never stopping till after the conversation of Jesus on

Digitized by

Google

84 THE LIFE OF

Cairo by the gale of Victory, on Friday, the 10th day of
the month of Mohharram, and in the year 1214 of the
Hegira, with the greatest splendour and attendance ; the
excellent appearance of the troops was a most delightful
spectacle. This has been a great day; never ha4 we
seen its equal. All the inhabitants of Cairo went forth
to meet him ; they have seen and know him to be indeed
the same General-in-Chief, Bonaparte himself; they are
convinced that all the reports concerning him were false.
The inhabitants of Upper Egypt have expelled the Ma-
a melukes to ensure their own safety, that of their families
and their children, — for the chastisement of the wicked
sometimes affeets the righteoas, their neighbours.

" We now inform you, that the Pacha Djezzar (or
Batcher), thus named on acoount of his atrocious cruel-
ties, making no choice of his victims, had collected toge-
ther a great number of disaffected subjects, purposing to
seize upon Cairo, and the provinces of Egypt, encou-
raging the natives by the promises of plunder and viola-
tion. The General-in-Chief Bonaparte departed, and
beat the soldiers of Djezzar. He took the fort of El-
Arish, and all the supplies of provisions which were
found therein. He proceeded afterwards to Gaza, and
beat the troops of Djezzar, who fled before him, as
birds and mice fly before the cat. Arriving next at Bam-
leh, he again seized the supplies of Djezzar, and two
thousand leathern bottles of excellent workmanship, which
were there on their route to Egypt; but God ordered
otherwise. From Ramleh he proceeded to Jaffa, which
place he besieged during three days. The thoughtless
inhabitants, refusing to submit, and despisihg his protec-
tion, in his wrath he surrendered the city to the fury of his
troops — to plunder and to death ; thus perished nearly

the mountain. He then stated, that he was in ecstasy at the purity,
sublimity, and beauty of such morality, and we all joined with him
in expressing a similar opinion.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 85

five thousand of the inhabitants. He has destroyed their
ramparts and pillaged all that was found within the city :
this is the work of God, who says, and all things are.
He has spared the Egyptians who were found therein*
— honoured them, and fed and clothed them. He found
in Jaffa about five thousand men of the troops of Djezzar ;
they were all destroyed, few saving themselves by Alight.
From Jaffa he proceeded to Kakun, ^ place on Mount
Nablous, where he burnt five villages. What was or-
dained has been fulfilled ; the Master of the nniverse
ever acts with the same justice. Afterwards he destroyed
the walls of Acre, the castle of t)jexzar. At Acre he has
not left one stone upon another ; he has made of it a heap
of rubbish, so that it may be asked whether a city existed
in that place. Such is the termination of the edifices of
tyranny. Two motives have induced his return to Egypt,
— first, that he might observe the promise which he
made to the Egyptians, to revisit them in four months
—for his promises are the most sacred engagements;
secondly, from having learned that many disaffected, both
of the Mamelukes and the Arabs, had sown trouble and
sedition during his absence. His arrival has dispersed
them. His highest ambition is the destruction of the
wicked, and his only desire to confer favours on the
righteous. Return then to God, you, his creatures, sub-
mit yourselves to his decrees, for to him alone belongeth
the earth ; obey his will, and know that he only disposeih
pf power and might, and bestoweth it on whom it seemeth
io him meet : this he has ordained that we should believe.
The General-in-Chief will make known to the Divan the
love he bears to Mussulmen, and to their holy prophet;
and that be will instruct himself in the Koran, which he
always reads with the most constant attention. We also
know that he purposeth to build a mosque which shall
have no equal in all the world, and that he will embrace
the Mahometan religion.'9

Digitized by

Google

80 THE JUFE OF

CHAP. III.

Account of the Institute at Cairo and the teamed Men who
accompanied the Expedition to Egypt — Denoris Narrative
continued— Gazelles in the Desert — Approach to Syene —
Beautiful View of the Island of Elephantina— Syene and
the Frontiers of Upper Egypt— Quarters of the Army-
Temple of Cneph and other Monuments, at Elephantina —
Trade of Syene— Encounter of the French Cavalry with
Assan-Bey — Carved Blocks of Granite — Cataracts of the
Nile — Island of Philo'e— Ethiopian Village and its Inha-
bitants— Napoleon's Questions to the Institute — Amuse-
ments of the French Officers— Petrified Forest — Fluctua-
tion of the Sands of the Desert— Egyptian Mode of convey-
ing Intelligence, or a Substitute for Telegraphs— Return of
Miot and his Troop to Cairo — Movements of the Mamelukes
. .preparatory to the Battle ofAboukir — Arrival of the Turk-
■ i ish Fleet off Aboukir — Operations of the French to frus-
, trate the .Intentions of the Turkish Armament — Napo-
leon's Jitter* to the Dioans of Rofettaand Grand. Cairo —
Disembarkation of the Turks at Aboukir — Bonaparte takes
his Position at the Wells between Alexandria and Aboukir —
his singular Conversation with General Murat, and spirited
Reply of that intrepid Officer— M. Miot's Opinion in Re-
spect to Napoleon's Exclamation, and his being then re-
solved to leave the Army of Egypt and embark for Europe.

V DuaiNG the expedition to Syria," continue* M. Miot,
" order was established in all the branches of the adminis-
tration At Cairo. Money, was in active circulation, and
the Institute pursued undjftturbed its valuable researches.
Oa all sides the French had displayed )Mr industrious
^activity, and wants of every kind presented to dexte-
rous speculators a thousand means of acquiring riches."

As we cannot dwell too much on the Jfcench expedi-
tion to Egypt, which affords such incontestible proofs of

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. Qj

the genius and talent of Bonaparte, we shall here digress
from the interesting narrative of M. Miot, to insert an
account of all the scientific researches attempted by the
Coimnander<»in -Chief of the French army, combined with
the labours of the Institute, established by his orders, at
Grand Cairo. Many objects of the highest importance
signalize this period, consecrated to arts and sciences ;
General Andreossy and M. Berthollet, as we have pre-
viously shown, went to explore the famous lakes of Na-
tron, and proceeded to the River without Water; all
the learned men who accompanied Napoleon, says Gene-
ral Berthier, were employedjin pursuits analagous to their
talents, and the knowledge they had acquired. Nonet
and Mechain ascertained the latitude of Alexandria,
Cairo, Salehiah, Damietta, and Suez.

Lefebvre and Malus acquired a thorough knowledge of
the canal of Noes : the first having also accompanied,
with Bouchard, Gaulat and Andreossy during his excur-
sion to the lake Menzaleh.

Peyre and Gerard executed the plan of Alexandria ;
Lanorey explored Abou Maynege ; and was further em>
powered to direct the works carried on at the canal of
Alexandria.

Geoffroy consulted the animals found at Lake Mem
zaleh, and the fish of the Nile ; Delisle was deputed to
consider the plants that vegetate in Lower Egypt.

Arnolet and Champy, the younger, undertook the mi-
neral productions of the Red Sea, and to make their
researches into the same.

To Girard was consigned the labour of producing a
work on all the canals of Upper Egypt

Denon was employed in Fayum and Upper Egypt, to
produce drawings of the various interesting relics of
remotest antiquity.9

* Our march, says M. Denon, in continuation, on this day,
February 1st, offered new deserts to our eye. We found the roeks
to consist alternately of granite and decomposed free-stone, Conning

Digitized by VjOOQ IC

83 THE LIFE OF

Cont6 had the direction of the manufactory of mecha-
nical arts ; he caused wind-mills to be constructed, toge-

a brittle friable crust, like scoria. Id the Tallies in'which the sand
abounds, the surface is smooth and tender like snow, so that the
tracks of animals are perceived with the utmost ease, and one
can instantly make out those that have passed since the last wind.
—The most frequent prints of feet to be met with are those of
the gazelle, a beautiful little animal, which is so shy and timid,
that, after having taken its food on the banks of the nver, it retires
to conceal its fears in the silence of the desert. It excites a
melancholy reflection to remark, that a beast of prey always follows
the steps of this elegant and sprightly animal ; the vast space of the
desert does not secure it against rapacity. I this day saw two of
these animals, of the most delicate and elegant species of its numerous
family. We marched slowly and painfully, stopping every minute
to pull off our shoes and to take breath. In the afternoon, I found
in the middle of the desert the trace of a grand antique road, bounded
with large masses of hewn stone, which led in a straight line to Syene.
In the afternoon the troops were so much fatigued, that, on quitting
the desert, we halted at the first green spot which was capable of a?
fording food for our horses; I thought they would never be dragged
from the place, nor our men again raised from the ground ; as for myself,
I was absolutely wearied out, and remained all the night as if rivet-
ted to the soil. The next day, we had but three quarters of a league
to march to rejoin our cavalry, which had only gone before to devour
all the country would afford, before our arrival ; at last, however, we
got in sight of Assum or Syene, the object of our destination. The
soldier now forgot his fatigues, as if he had already arrived at the
promised land, not remembering that, to return to a country of abun-
dance, he must again cross the same painful desert which he had just
left behind him ; but the past is nothing to the soldier, when he can
snatch a little present gratification. For myself, however, 1 had the
most reason to be satisfied, since I was going, for the first time in my
life, to sit down and take a little breathing time in a country, which
abounded with so many interesting objects for my researches.

The first good news we learned was, that the Mamelukes had not
burned the boats, which they could not get over the cataracts. In
the morning I ascended to the convent of St. Lawrence, which is but
an indifferent ruin. Above is a watch-tower, fronuthe lofty summit
of which a most singular view presents itself to the eye; it seems to
be the end of the world, or rather a chaos, from which the air has
already separated, and the watery element appears to gush from the
earth, "running in numerous channels, promising fertility to nature.
The first effects of its bounties are seen around the granite rocks, in
the hollows of which the sand and slime brought by the waves are de-
posited, forming a basis for vegetation, which continues to increase,
and embrace a larger and wider field. At Elephantina, the cultiva-
tion, the trees, and the habitations, exhibit a picture of perfection in
the gifts of nature, which has given rise to the Arabian name of Ke-
ziret-el-Sag, or the Flowery Island*

On the third of February we crossed over to the right bank of
the river, to take possession of Assum or Syene. Murad-Bey had

Digitized by \jO<

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 80

ther with an infinity of machines, until that period totally
unknown in Egypt.

passed the cataracts and divided his force over a considerable tract
of country, in order to find subsistence for his Mamelukes and their
horses, and we were obliged to do the same with ours.

On the fifth, Desaix set out with the cavalry, to go in quest of
EHy-Bey, whom we had left behind us on the right bank of the Nile.
I had not quitted Desaix since we left Cairo, and I feel some pride
in saving, that the moment of parting was attended with mutual regret ;
we had spent together so many agreeable moments, riding a foot's
pace, side by side, for twelve or fifteen hours successively, not in
idle chat, but in waking dreams, and often after such long marches
observing to each other : "How many things shall we have to talk
of during the rest of our lives."

I went with General Beliard to take possession of the government
of Syenc, where our first employment was to get comfortably settled.
We had very good quarters: it was the house of thekiachef, built of
stone, with an upper story, terraces, and vaulted rooms : here we
made beds, tables, and stools, and I found it a high luxury to undress
myself, to sit and to lie down: our soldiers aid the same. The
second day after our establishment there were already in the streets
of Syene, tailors, shoemakers, jewellers, French barbers with their
poles, eating-houses, and restourateuri, all at fixed prices.

The station of an army offers a picture of the most rapid exercise
of every resource that industry can furnish ; each individual sets all
his abilities to work for the general advantage; but, what peculiarly
characterizes a French ' army is, the establishing superfluities ana
amusements at the same time and with the same care as absolute ne-
cessaries ; thus we had gardens and coffee-houses, in which we amused
ourselves in playing with cards manufactured at Syene. . At one
entrance of the village is a walk with straight rows of trees pointing
to the north ; our soldiers there set up a milestone, with this inscription,
Route de Paris, No. onze, cent soixante sept milks trois cents qua-
ranie. It was some days after, having received a distribution of datct
for their whole ration, that they entertained such pleasant or philo-
sophic ideas. Nothing but death can put a period to valour com-
bined with gaiety ; the greatest misfortune can do nothing to effect it

On this side of the river there are no other remains of the Egyptian
town than a small square temple surrounded by a gallery, out so
shattered and shapeless, that nothing can be seen but the embrasure
between two pillars, with the capitals and a small part of the enta-
blature ; this fragment is what Savary, (who confesses that he never
was at Syene,) relates on hear-say to be probably the remains of the
ancient observatory, in which, according to him, the nilometer should
be sought for. I ascertained this to be an error, of which, however,
that ardent and elegant writer is not the author, as he has related
every thing, pointed out every thing, and frequently painted in a sur-
prizing manner even what he nad never seep.

Near this ruin, among the palm-trees, are the fragments of an edi-
fice, which I think must be attributed to the Greek catholics; two

VOL. II.— 16. . *

Digitized by

Google

90 THE LIFE OF

Savigny made a most valuable collection of the insects
discovered in the deserts of Syria.

columns of granite are still left standing, with two door-cases of the
same material, and on the ground are columns grouped against two
faces of a single pilaster.

The island of Elephantina became at the same time my country-
house, and my palace' of delight, observation, and research ; 1 think i
must have turned over every loose stone, and questioned every rock
in the island. It was at its southern extremity that the Egyptian town
and the Roman habitations were situated, and the Arabian buildings
which succeeded them. The part occupied by the Romans can only
now be made out by the bricks, the tesselated pavements, and the
small images of porcelain and bronze, which are still found ; the Arab
' quarter is only distinguished by the dunghills with which they have
covered the soil, a common feature in all the ruins of the edifices of
this people. Every thing posterior to that time has disappeared, so
as to leave scarcely any trace of its existence, whilst the Egyptian
monuments remain devoted to posterity, and have resisted equally
the ravages of man and of time. In the midst of this vast field of
bricks and other pieces of baked earth, of which I have just spoken, a
very ancient temple is still left standing, surrounded with a pifastered

gallery, and two columns in the portico. Nothing is therefore wanting
ut two pilasters, on the left angle of this ruin. Other edifices had
been attached to it at a later period, but only some fragments are re-
maining, to convey an idea of their form when perfect, and these only
proved that the accessory parts were much larger than the original
sanctuary. The latter is covered both within and without with hiero-
glyphics in relief, very well cut, and in good preservation.

Could this be the temple of Cneph, the good genius, who among
the Egyptian gods approaches nearest to our ideas of the Supreme
Being? Or is the temple of this deity one which is placed six hundred
paces more to the north, of the same form and size, though more in
ruins, all the ornaments of which are accompanied by the serpent, the
emblem of wisdom and eternity, and peculiarly that of the god Cneph I
To judge from what I have seen of Egyptian edifices, this supposed
temple of Cneph is similar to what was used in the earliest times, and
is absolutely the same species of temple as that of Kornu in Thebes,
which appeared to me to be the most ancient of all in that city. The
chief difference in the sculpture of this at Elephantina, which I have
been able to discover is, that the figures have more life, the drapery
is more flowing, and falls into a better form of composition. Of the
last-mentioned edifice nothing is preserved but a column of the por-
tico, and one whole side of a gallery, in pilasters.

In the middle of the island there are two frames of a large outer
door, made of blocks of granite, and ornamented with hieroglyphics/
These remains certainly indicate monuments of great magnificence,
the extent of which might be ascertained by a little digging. At the
east is another fragment of a very small and highly finished edifice ;
all that is. seen of it is the west side of a narrow chamber, or a very
smalt temple, the hieroglyphics that remain being perfecdy well sculp*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. j)l

Beaqcbamp and Nouet composed an almanack thai
consisted of five calendars, comprising thai of the French

tared. Tbe ornaments are loaded with the lotus, particularly the
flowers of that plant whose drooping stem appears to be revived by a
figure watering it, the form in question being the same as one which
I observed at Latopolis, This chamber or temple communicates with
a narrower passage, which, to judge by the traces of a number of
successive buildings, terminated on the gallery open to the Nile, and
resting on a large embanked facing, which defended the eastern part
of the island from being worn away by the current of the river. Three
porticos of this gallery remain, and a flight of granite stairs which
dip into the river. Nf ay not this gallery, this adorned chamber, and
tbie staircase, be the observatory and the nifometer, which travellers
have in vain sought for at Syene? Full of this klea, I examined
carefully the stone facing of the stairs, bat could find no traces of any
gradation ; the steps themselves, however, might serve as a scale, and
tbe upper part of this staircase being blocked up with ruins, it it
possible that the measures may be marked in this pari which I couk)
not examine.*

All these buildings are founded upon masses of rock, covered with
hieroglyphics engraved with more or less care. Further on* turning
towards the north, are two portions of parapet, leaving between them
an opening, through which one may descend to the river; on the
inner side of the right parapet is a bas-relief in marble, representing
the figure of the Nile, four feet in height, in the same attitude as a
colossal statue of the same subject which is at Rome. This copy of
the same idea proves the edifice to be Roman,- and that this people, in
their establishment at Syene, having bad opportunity of adding the
ornaments of luxury and superfluity to works of the first necessity,
had established rather a powerful colony there, than a mere military
post : the baths and valuable bronze utensils, which are daily found
there, support an opinion as to the richness and permanency of this
colony.

The island of Elephantina, defended on the south by breakers, has
been doubtless much increased towards the north by alluvial soil.
ThiB soon becomes converted into cultivated lands and pleasant gar*
dens, which being kept perpetually watered by means of wheels and
buckets, produce four or five crops yearly ; and thus the inhabitants
are numerous, in easy circumstances, and courteous. When I hailed
them from tbe opposite shore, they would come across for me in their
boats, and I was soon surrounded with all the children, who offered
me for sale fragments of antiquity and rough camel ians. With a few
crowns I made a great number of those little ones happy, and gained
the good will of their parents, who invited me, prepared breakfast
in the temples where I Bet up my drawing apparatus; in short, I

* Strebo, who had observed Syene with care, and has described it roiputely,
says, that this nilometer was a well which received the Nile waters, and that
the narks by which the height of the inundation was estimated were engraved
on the sides of the well.

Digitized by

Google

92 THE LIFE OF

Republic and those of the Roman, Greek, Copht, and
Mus&alman churches.

appeared like the master of a garden, which contained in reality alt
one seeks to imitate in decorated gardens in Europe; here were
islets, rocks, deserts, plains, meadows, garden-ground, open grovesr
hamlets, dark woods, remarkable in profusion, plants, a river, canals,
mills, and sublime ruins ! a spot still more enchanting, since, like the
gardens of Armida, it was surrounded by all the horrors of nature,
and those of the Thebais, a contrast with which increased the enjoy-
ments of this delightful island. Having all my senses and my ima-
gination eaually in activity, I never passed hours more deliciously
occupied than those which I devoted to my solitary walks at Ele-
pbantina ; an island which alone is worth more than the whole territory
which lies adjacent to the town.

The population of Svene is numerous: the trade, however, is
( confined to senna and dates, and these two articles produce a suf-
ficient return to pay all the other wants of the inhabitants, to main*
tain a kiachef, a governor, and a Turkish garrison. The senna which.

Srows around Syene is of a moderate quality ; when sold, it is fraur
ulently mixed with that which grows wild in the desert, brought
hither by the Baraba, and sold at nearly a hundredth part of what we
give for it in Europe. It is true that it pays in its passage a number
of duties, and is one of the most important articles of the custom-
houses of Cairo and Alexandria. The second produce of exportation,
is that of dates ; they are small and dry, but so abundant, that, besides-
constituting the principal food of the inhabitants, large boats loaded
with them are daily sent down the river to Lower Egypt.

We learnt by our spies that the Mamelukes had ascended the
stream, remaining as little removed as they could above the cata-
racts, ravaging the two shores of the Nile, which still supplied them
with some forage. They had hitherto drawn supplies of flour and
dates from Deir and Bribes ; but the aga who resided there signified
to them that this supply must be stopped. They occupied ten leagues
in extent on each bank ; their rear guard1 was no more than four
leagues from U3, so they knew every step we took, as we in our
turn were informed of all their movements, by the same means*
and perhaps, even by the same emissaries, who served both parties
faithfully, and with equal exactitude.

General Davoust had met with Assan-Bey on the right bank of the
river, opposite Etfu, at the moment when be was coming down to the
Nile for water; the imminent danger he was in of losing all his
equipage made him charge with fury ; while the eagerness of our
men to get possession of it, and a little contempt for the enemy, with
which the battle of Samanhut had inspired them, made them attack
with too much negligence. This battle of two hundred cavalry on each
side was rather an affray than a regular combat, and both parties
gave proof of the highest valour. The charge lasted half an hour ;
the field of battle remained w'Kh the French ; but Assan-Bey obtained
his main point, that of saving his baggage : on our side, we had from
thirty to forty killed, and as many wounded; twelve Mamelukes

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 98

Costard edited a journal, and Foamier, Secretary of
the Institute, was appointed Commissary of the Divan.

perished, and many of them were disabled ; Assan. was hurt in the
leg* so that neither party had any thing to boast from this encounter.

We went in search of the barks which the Mamelukes had endea-
voured to navigate above the cataracts, and wished at the same time to
visit in our way the quarries in the granite rocks, from whence the blocks
were hewn which formed the materials for the colossal statues that have
been the object of admiration for so many ages, and the ruins of which
still strike us with astonishment. It seemed as if the sculptors wished
to preserve the memorial of the masses that have produced these
blocks, by leaving on the place hieroglyphic inscriptions which per-
haps record the event. The operation resorted to in detaching, must
have been nearly the same as is employed in the present day, that is
to say, a cleft is first cut out, and then the whole mass is split
off by means of wedges of different sizes, all struck in at one time.
The marks of these first operations are preserved so fresh in this un-
alterable material, that to took at them one would suspect that the
work had been interrupted only yesterday.

A league and a half below the quarries the rocks increase, and form
a bar in the river, where we found the Mameluke barks fixed between
the rocks, up to the first well below the falls ; the peasants of the
neighbourhood had taken out the rigging and the provisions. We
here quitted the little boat in which we nad ascended, and walking
by the side of the stream for about a quarter of an hour, we came to
the part which is generally called the cataracts. This is nothing but
a range of rocks, over which the river flows, forming in some places
cascades a few inches in height : they are perfectly insignificant.

The mountains, the surface of which is broken by Black and rug-
ged projections, are reflected with their gloomy aspect on the clear
mirror of the stream below, which is broken and divided by sharp
points of granite that roughen its' channel, and form long white lines
of foam, wherever any of these rocks impede its smooth surface.
These rough shapeless masses, with their dark hues, form a striking
contrast with the soft green of the groups of palm-trees that clustre
around the irregular cliffs, and with the celestial azure blue of the
clearest' sky over the face of the earth. After passing the cataracts
the rocks grow loftier, till the eye all at once discovers the magnifi-
cent monuments of tbe island of Philoe, which form a brilliant con-
trast. The Nile here makes a bend, where the monuments are
only separated by tufts of palm-trees, or rocks that appear to be left
merely to contrast the forms of nature with the magnificence of art,
and to collect, in one rich spot, every thing that is most beautiful and
impressive.

There were no inhabitants on the shore; they had quitted even
the isle of Philoe, and had retired to a second and larger island, from
which they sent forth loud and savage cries, which we understood
were excited by their fears. We endeavoured to persuade them
to send us a boat, which was moored to their bank, but without
success.

Digitized by

Google

94 THE UFE OF

Berthollet and Monge were at the head of all these la-
boars and enterprises ; they were found in every direction,

Some days after, we learnt that the Mamelukes of the right bank
were coming to forage within two league* of our posts. We prepared
to resist them, and set out with four hundred men, advancing towards
Philoe by land, taking the rout across the desert. This road has one
peculiarity, which is, that there are evident remains of its having been
traced out, and raised as a causeway, and that there was much traffic
upon it in former times. This is the only part of Egypt where a high
road is absolutely necessary ; but the Nile ceasing to be navigable
on account of the cataracts, all the merchandize of the Ethiopian
trade which is landed at Philoe must be transported by land to Syene,
ki order to be there re-embarked. The several large blocks of stone
we met with in the way were cotered with hieroglyphics, as if left
there for the amusement of the passengers. One of tne most singular
of these presents the form of a seat cut out of the solid rock, with a
flight of steps to climb up to it ; and the whole ornamented with
hieroglyphics, the greater number of which are executed with infi-
nite care.

Another singular object near this road, is the ruins of military
lines, made of bricks baked in the sun, the bases of which are from
fifteen to twenty feet in thickness. This intrenchment extended
along the valley by the road side, and terminated at the rocks and
forts near three leagues from Syene. Though the materials of which
these walls were built were cheap enough, the expense of putting
them together must have been very great, and shews the im*
portance attached to the defence of this point. Can these be the
remains of .the famous wall raised by a queen of Egypt, named Zu*
leikha, daughter of Ziba, one of the Pharaohs, which extended from
ancient Syene to the place where El-Arish is now situated, and the
fragments of which the Arabs call haif-el-adjowz, or " the old woman's
wall?"

We found the natives of Philoe returned to their habitations, but
fully determined not to receive us. We attributed this ill-will to the
fear which we gave them, and continued our journey. Beyond
Philoe" the river is quite open and navigable ; but after having passed
an Arab fort and a mosque of the same age, the shore of the Nile
becomes impracticable for travellers ; and instead of a profusion of
monuments and inscriptions, we only saw a barreu soil left to itself
and on the rocks a tew habitations, which resembled the huts of
savages. We entered a desert which cut an angle of the river, in
order to shorten our way ; and after having for several hours travelled
along valleys which were as deep aud hollow as if the country were
constantly exposed to storms and torrents, the Nile again opened
upon us through a ravine which led to Taudi, an indifferent village on
the bank of the river. At our approach the Mamelukes abandoned
this place, leaving behind them their plates, their kettles, and even
the soup they had made, which they intended to eat at sun-set, for
it was the month of Ramadan, a kind of Lent, during which all the
Mussulmans, even to the soldiery, eat nothing whilst the sun is above
the horizon.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 95

superintending useful establishments, or directing f#>
searches for important discoveries.

While these learned individuals pursued their respec-
tive occupations with indefatigable industry, Napoleon,
though unceasingly occupied in organizing Egypt, and
preparing a code of legislation, was no less alive to scien-
tific labours. Having passed the Red Sea, as before
stated, he visited the fountains of Moses, performed the
perilous journey to the isthmus of Seen, discovered the
remains of that canal, and caused a geometrical plan to
be drawn out by the engineer Peyre, a labour, observes
General Berthier, which would at length resolve the grand
problem of the existence of one of the greatest and most
important works ever performed by man.

To the above details we will now subjoin a list of the

We sent out a spy daring the night ; and learnt, that at day-break
the Mamelukes who were at Demiet, four leagues higher than Taudi,
thinking themselves too near us, bad feci their horses and set out at
midnight. Our object in driving them further off being fulfilled, we
set out to return to Syene. I bad already seen enough of Ethiopia, of
the Gublis and their wives, whose extreme ugliness can only be equalled
by the savage jealousy of their husbands. I saw some of the women,
for as 1 gave the men less apprehension than our soldiers, they placed
a number of them under my protection in a cahin, before the door
of which I had taken up my quarters for the night. They had been
caught by surprise at the sudden arrival of our people at the close of
evening, and nad no time to fly and hide themselves in the rocks,
or to swim across the river. They appeared to have the sullen stupi-
dity of downright savages* A rugged soil, fatigue and insufficient
food, must, doubtless impair in them all the charms of nature, and
imprint even in youth the marks of decrepitude. But the men seem
to be of another species ; for their features are delicate, their skins
fine, their countenances quick and animated, and their eves and
teeth admirable. Lively and intelligent, they appear to throw so
much clearness and conciseness in their language, that a short
phrase is always a complete answer to questions mat are put to
them : their vivacity more resembles ours than that of the other
oriental nations : they are quick in understanding and serving, still
more nimble in thieving, and have a greediness for money, which
keeps pace with their great frugality, and can only be justified by
their extreme poverty. To these reasons we may impute their lean-
ness, which is not ait all connected with ill health, for their colour,
though black, is full of life and blood* but their muscles are only
tendons, absolutely without fat, so that I did not see a single person
among them who could even be called plump.

Digitized by

Google

96 THE LIFE OP

members who composed the Egyptian Institute, and, in
short, of all the learned men and artists who were attached
to that memorable expedition.

Institute of Egypt established at Grand Cairo by order of
General Bonaparte.

Class of Mathematics.

MM. Andreossy, Bonaparte, Costaz, Fourier, Girard,
Lepere, Leroi, Mains, Monge, Nonet, Quesnot, and Sajf.
Class of Phytic*.

MM. Berthollet, Champy, Cont6, Delille, Descotils,
Desgenettes, Dolomieu, Dubois, Geoffroy, and Savigny.
Class of Political Economy.

MM. Caffarelli, Gloutier, Poussielgue, Sulkowski,
Sucy, and Taliien.

Class of literature and the Arts.

MM. Denon, Dutertre, Norry, Parseval, Redoule,
Rigel, Venture, Rigot, and D. Raphael.

This Academy held many sittings, at which Napoleon
proposed the following questions, for the examination of
which commissioners were duly appointed. — First: What
are the means to be adopted in order to economize the
combustibles required for heating the ovens of the army ?
Second: Are there any means of supplying a substitute for
hops in the brewing of beer? Third: What means should
be resorted to to freshen and purify the waters of the
Nile? Fourth: Which are most expedient to construct
wind or water mills? Fifth: Does Egypt in itself afford
materials for the manufacture of gunpowder? Sixth : In
what state is judicial order and instruction in Turkey?
Messieurs. Andreossy and Berthollet read memoirs upon
the fifth question.

Learned Men and Artists attached to the Egyptian
Expedition.
Geometry.
MM. Fourier, Costaz, Corancez the younger, Char-
baud, Devilliera, Viard, Vincent, and Say.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. J>7

Astronomy.
MM. Dangos, Nouet, Quesnot, and Mechain, the
younger.

Mechanics.
MM. Monge, Conte, Maisiere, Cecile, Ain6s, Ain6s,
the younger, Cassard, Lenoir, the younger, Cirot, Cotur-
reur, Hasssenfratz, the younger, Favier, and Dubois.

Clockmakers.
MM. Lemaitre, Thomas, and Br6guet, the younger.

Chemistry.
MM. Berthollet, Descotils, Samuel Bernard, Regnaolt,
Champy, Pottier, and Pignat.

Mineralogy.
MM. Dolomieu, Cordier, Rozieres, Nepveu, and
Victor Dupuy.

Botany.
MM. Thouin, Nectour, Delille, Coquebert, tb*
younger, and Milbert.

Zoology.
MM. Geoffroy, Savigny, Ducharnoy, Gerard, and Be-
doute.

Surgery.
MM. Dubois, Labate, Lacipiere, Dubois, the younger,
Ronqueville, and Bessieres.

Pharmacy.
MM. Boudet, Rogmn, and Rouyer.

Antiquities.
MM. Leblond, Pourlier, and Ripault.

Architecture.
MM. Noroy, Balzac, and Protain.

Artists.
MM. Dutertre, Rigo, and Baudouin.

Literature.
MM. Lepere, Girard, Bodard, Gratien Lepere^ Saiat
Genis, Debaudre, Duval, Faye, Lancret, Fevre, Joltois,
vol. 11. — 18. 9

Digitized by LjOOQIC

£6 THE LIFE OF

Thevenot, Chabrolle, Raffimeau, Arnolet, Hyacinte Le-
pere, Panuzen, Chef y.

Geography.

MM. Lafeuillade, Leduc, Leveque, Bourgeois, Faur-
rie, Benaset, Coraboeuf, Dulion, Jomard, Lacesne, La-
moke, Bertre, Potior, Greslis, Boucher, and Chaumont.
Typography.

MM. Marcel, Dizerand, Puntis, Gallant, Baudoin,
Laogjer, Eberhart, Laforie, Crazy, Besson, Ramelet,
Barrier, Marqaoy; Boulangee, Boyer, Jardin, Rivet,
Very, Dubois, Gransart, Marlet, Lethioux, and Castera.

Having concluded the list of those individuals who so
eminently contributed to render the Egyptian expedition
a source of scientific and useful information to the world,
we shall now resume the detail of M. Midt.

" I have already said, that the rarity of French women
had rendered precious the small number which bad fol-
lowed the army. The want of a companion with whom
we might converse, and understand, lent charms even to
the least handsome. Thus the wives of soldiers and
sutlers had become the mistresses of many generals and
superior officers. It was necessary to be content with
what could be obtained. Others had taken to their homes
the females abandoned by the Mamelukes, some of whom
were beautiful ; and all, in giving us lessons in Arabic,
learnt to pronounce words of French ; however, it did
not always happen that they retained the most decent.
In this manner we formed societies, and sometimes ex-
changes which were sufficiently extravagant. Entertain-
ments were given, in which we enjoyed our punch, we
laughed, we became giddy in talking of Paris, and we
no longer remembered Egypt; sometimes the female
dancers of the country were introduced for the diversion
of the assembly ; their lascivious movements pleased our
imaginations by their graceful figures ; or the expert jug-
glers of the country, who displayed, to oar great surprise,
all the cunning of their science, — they caused even the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. QQ

most hideous and disgusting serpents and insects to
dance in measured steps before as/'

" The Turks, on their part, enriched themselves by
as. They readily imitated all the works of French, ma-
nnfactare ; titey were excellent embroiderers, and luxury,,
which oar residence in Egypt might have been expected
to destroy, re-established itself by their labour*."

"All the amy had the finest boead and flesh of the
buffalo. This meat though not, perhaps, equal to that
of the ox, was not bad, and custom soon reooncUed as to
the difference of colour. The mutton proved much su-
perior* its enormous tail contained a great quantity of
fat : I have seen, some of these tails, whioh weighed from
twelve to fourteen poands each."

" Bonaparte, scarcely arrived in Cairo, occupied him-
self ia new clothing the army. Of this the tfoops
returned from Syria stood in the greatest need,, and the
difficulty of procuring a sufficient quantity of blue" elotfa
caused all colours to be adopted* Oae regiment appear-
ed in red, another in green, a third in yellow, &o» &c. In
a, word, he took all the dispositions necessary to place
the army in a state to fight new battles. He foresaw the
storms which were gathering in Asia and Europe;-*- a
residence in Egypt would justly alarm the English; and
we could not imagine that they would quietly leave us
to form an establishment so dangerous to their commerce."

" I was beginning, after so many fatigues, to enjoy that
repose at Cairo, which bad been so dearly purchased,
when, on the morning, of the 24th of June, I received
orders to hold myself in readiness to accompany General
Marat. I accordingly waited upon him; it was- simply
to go upon an- excursion against the Arabs, who had
established' themselves* to the south of Cario, on the right
bank of the Nile* The instructions of the General-in-Chief
were that we should turn the hill of Mokattam, and, com*
bining our maroh in the desert,, arrive at the first dawn of
day before the camp of the Arabs, situated near a village

Digitized by

Google

100

THE LIFE OF

which was indicated to us; We took with ns some caval-
ry, and a small detatchment of infantry to escort our
convoy of camels, which carried our water and provisions."

" We commenced our march in the afternoon, and,
passing through the gate of Lacoube, turned the hill of
Mokattam, following the route which was pointed out to
us by an Arabian guide, and we thus marched all the
evening. Before we halted we passed through a valley
of sand, in the middle of which I perceived pieces of
" petrified wood of an uncommon magnitude. These •
were the trunks and branches of trees almost entire. I
never before saw any thing equally surprising; and the
quantity of these astonishing fragments plainly indicated
that there had formerly existed in this place a forest of
considerable extent. Further on was the appearance of
the ancient bed of a river. I made a note of these sin-
gular discoveries, which a few days afterwards, on our
return to Cairo, I transmitted to M. Monge."

" It need not be a subject of surprise, that travellers
have not mentioned this petrified forest, which is situated
at about three leagues distant in a direct line, south-east*
from Cairo ; for, from the frequent well known local changes
in the deserts, an object discovered this day will be in a
short time engulphed in the sand, whilst another, sunk to
a profound depth, may, by a very simple and common
cause in Egypt, return again to the surface."

"The hills. move with the least wind, and the light
sand, driven as it were on the surface of the earth pr
raised in the air, fills up the vallies, or heaps against the
first obstacle that it encounters. By this continual fluc-
tuation of the soil, the desert incessantly encroaches upon
the productive and cultivated part of the country on the
banks of the Nile. It happens frequently enough in
Egypt that whole villages in the vicinity of the desert
are abandoned by their inhabitants, the houses or rather
huts being with difficulty distinguishable under the sands
in which they are swallowd up."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. JOl

" We marched daring the night, and in proportion as
we approached the end of onr little expedition, the
ground changed, and we passed in the midst of preci-
pitate and very unequal hills. The moon disappearing at
an early hour, we were left in darkness and our guide
misled us. The next morning, at break of day, we were
greatly surprised to find ourselves in the middle of the
deserts, and no longer able to perceive the banks of the
Nile. There could be no risk in proceeding upon our
right, but, the object of our excursion was already lost.
We arrived by day at the village occupied by the tribe of
which we were in chase, but we did not, however, find
them there, and we halted in this place during the night
to refresh our men."

, " General Rampon, who had re-ascended the Nile .
with some troops to pass into one of the provinces of
Upper Egypt, had given the first alarm to the Arabs, and
the villagers, by the means which they habitually employ-
ed, had successively announced to each other the news of
the arrival of the French. The means thus resorted to in or-
der to indicate the moment of assembly for an engagement,
were as follows. The country being level, the minarets
of one village are easily perceived from those of another
in the vicinity ; a sufficient quantity of dust cast from
the summits, at one or more times, forms a small cloud
which is distinguished from the next minaret ; and these
signals, thus repeated from village to village, serve them
instead of telegraphs."

"Next morning we again threw ourselves into the
sands, in expectation of coming up with the enemy, who,
obliged suddenly to decamp, had not been able to proceed
to any considerable distance, on account of their cattle
and their camels. In effect, after having marched some
hours, we discovered a number of women, abandoned in
the ravines with the flocks and their children. The men
had not feared to leave them to our discretion, persuaded
probably, that we should not injure them. Having thus

Digitized by

Google

10$ THE UFJB 0F

succeeded in dispersing the tribe of the enemy, the
object of oar excursion waa in, some measure accomplish-
ed. The same evening we re-approached the Nile to
pass the night, and on the 28th of June, at an early homy
again entered Cairo. I have only spoken of this, excur-
sion that I might relate the discovery of the petrified
forett, which appeared to me no less singular than inter-
esting."

" Scarcely had. we resumed our usual, mode of life, a*
Cairo, when* General Murat was again, ordered, July
10th* to put himself in march with a column of cavalry
and infantry, while General Lagrange departed the mam
day to surprise a party of Mamelukes at Sebabiar."

" The occasion of the movements which preceded the
battje of Abeukuv were as follows. The Mamelukes* of
Upper Egypt hadt separated. Morad-Bey bad descended
the left, and another Corps, the right bank of the Nile,
to give assistance to Ibrahim-Bey, who bad returned to
Gaza* The Mamelukes expected every moment the de-
barkation of an* army, whose succour they had, reckoned
upon* and which they were to follow op by new efforts/'
"General Lagrange had i4 in charge to follow, the
Mamelukes upon the right bank* and General MUirat, if
possible, to overtake Murad* The two Bey* were, per-
haps, about to form, a, junction and. to give battle ; this*
however, did not take place. MuradrBey, who* had di-
rected his march upon the lakes* of Natcon* having learnt
that they were already occupied by the French* retired
upon the great Pyramids, where Murat followed, him.
In the mean time, General Lagrange had arrived at.
Sebabiar, and obliged the Mamelukes to retreat into,
the desert."

" Bonaparte, informed of the retrograde movement of
Murad-Bey, left Cairo, July 14th, with, his guides and
different troops, and advanced towards the Pyramids*
where he joined General Murat. The^ General-in-Chief
here received a letter from Alexandria, which announced,.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 1Q3

that a Turkish fleet of one hundred sail bad anchored off
Atrtukir. He comprehended at once the plan of Ae
enemy, and to take the necessary dispositions, immedi-
ately returned to Gizeh. From thenee, during the night,
he despatched orders to the Generals of the army. De-
aaix re-approached Cairo in all haste ; and a strong mo-
veable column observed the motions of Murad-Bey, to
prevent his throwing himself opon the side of Abookir.
Kleber, with a part of his division, quitted Damietta to
repair to Rosetta, while General Regnier received in-
structions to observe, with increased vigilance, the en-
trances of the desert which separated him from Ibrahim-
Bey."

" The intelligence of this debarkation disturbed our
tranquillity, and, although confident in our means, we were
unable to await, without the liveliest impatience, the
result of an affair which would decide odr fate. Mea-
sures were taken at Cairo to ensure the French, in case
of a revolt of the inhabitants, a safe retreat to the cita-
del, which had been put in a state of defence. We even
transported there immediately a part of the papers con-
cerning the administration of the army. General Dugua
had the command of the city, whose prudence and wis-
dom, during this crisis, preserved, the most perfect calm."

" Bonaparte, with his head-quarters, quitted Gineh on
the 16th of July, and arrived on the 20lh at Rahmanieh,
where all the troops united on the 21st and 93d/9

On the 2l8t he wrote to the Divan of Rosetta; " I
write this letter to inform you," said Napoleon, " that I
am arrived at Rahmabieh, and that I am preparing to
prooeed against those who wish to disturb the tranquillity
of Egypt. God has submitted it to my power, to the
end that I might restore it to its ancient splendour. To
accomplish his decrees! he has given me a force sufficient
to annihilate my enemies, &c."

On the following day, the 22d, Bonaparte de-
spatched the following to the Divan at Cairo ! " Twenty-

Digitized by

Google

104 THE LIFE OF

four vessels, small and large, presented themselves to
attack Alexandria ; but, having been received with balls
and bombs, they have anchored off Aboukir, where they
have commenced disembarking. I shall permit them to do
this, because my purpose is, when they are landed, to
attack them, to slay all those who do not surrender, and
to give quarter to others, that I may lead them prisoners,
which will be a most delightful sight for the city of Cairo.
On board this fleet there are Russians, who abhor those
who place faith in the unity of God, because, according to
their falsehoods, they believe that there are three : bat
they shall not wait to see that it is not the number of
Gods which gives power. The Mussulman, who is em-
barked on a vessel that hoists the cross, be who con-
tinually hears the only God blasphemed, is even worse
than an infidel. It is my desire, that yon make known
these things, &c."

" Bonaparte ascertained from General Marmont, at
.Rahmanieh, that the Turks, who first disembarked at
Aboukir, to the number of three thousand men, had
attacked the fort, which capitulated, and that, in follow-
ing up this success, the rest of the enemy's army, con-
sisting of fifteen thousand men, had established them-
selves in the peninsula of Aboukir, where they were
intrenched and fortified. Bonaparte concluded, from
this intelligence, that the Turks expected the arrival
of the Arabs and Mamelukes, and that there was not a
moment to be lost to destroy so dangerous a coalition.
He immediately put the army in motion, and repaired
himself to Alexandria, which he quitted, on the evening
of the 24th of July, to occupy a position at the wells, be-
tween Alexandria and Aboukir. This point became the
rendezvous of the army."

" In the night, Bonaparte had an interview with Ge-
neral Murat ; they discoursed on the result of the battle
which was to take place the ensuing day ; and, in the
•concse of his conversation,. Bonaparte exclaimed, " This

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPAHTE. 105

battle will decide the fate of the world" General Marat,
astonished, and whose ideas were entirely fixed upon
the important affair, which the son would soon enlighten,
replied, " At least the fate of the army ; but I must
assure yon, General, that there is not a soldier who does
not feel the ' necessity of conquering, — and we shall con-
quer. The enemy has no cavalry, yours is brave, and I
engage, that if ever infantrjl were charged by cavalry,
the Turks shall be charged by mine.1'

" This anecdote, a new proof of the prophetic tone
which Bonaparte affected io adopt, and which, perhaps,
at length terminated in deceiving even himself, is also an
evident proof, that be, at that period, contemplated his
departure. He had then, probably, received the intelli-
gence which determined him to abandon his army in
Egypt ; at least, it is the only way in which I can account
for this exclamation. In effect, the victory which Bonar
parte promised himself at Aboukir, might ensure the
possession of Egypt during an uncertain period ; yet this
occupation, however important, would not decide the fate
of the xoorld, unless Bonaparte, pre- occupied with the
great changes over which he was about to preside, at-
tached all the interest of the expected event of " the
battle to his own person. His lively and ardent imagi-
nation placed him at the head of the French government,
and rapidly developed to him all those powerful means
which he would have at his disposal to introduce a new
order of things, and act a more important part in Europe. ,
Being assuredly informed of what was passing in France,
he saw the people, agitated and dissatisfied, under an un-
certain government, uniting themselves with ardour around
the warrior covered with glory, and on whom -alone re-
posed their hopes of quiet and prosperity. Once master
of the sovereign power, he would only have to direct
that military spirit, which the love of a chimerical liberty
had inspired. He should soon extend his influence to the
neighbouring states, with all that expansion of sentiment

VOL. n.~-18. P

Digitized by

Google

106 THE LIFE OF

which would conduct us to glory, and had already ren-
dered us formidable to the powers vainly coalesced against
us. By opening an immense career to ambition, Napo-
leon attached, all those to himself, who, in a state that
is reforming, push themselves forward and sacrifice- every
thing to acquire fortune. In a word, h* saw the Frcpch,
impelled to action by the warrior, who bad, until .then,
uniformly led them on to victory, decree to him,, as the
price of his glorious successes, the throne as a recom-
pense, with the finest empire for an heritage. His ima-
gination, inflamed with this brilliant picture, prompted
him, no doubt, to believe that he was the arbiter of En-
rope, and that thus the battle of Aboukir, as it would seal
his own fate, would also decide that of the. universe*
Not having been personally present at the famous day
of the 25th of July, and being unwilling .to interrupt the
course of events, I shall refer my reader to the report of
General Berthier."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. \Q7

CHAP. IV.

Desauts Expedition to Upper Egypt — Takes the Town of
Behnese — Battle of Sedinan — Description of the Optkalmia
— the French take Fayum, Sicut, and Qirgeh — General Rapp
made Colonel at the Battle of Samanhout — Battles of
Aboumanah and Souhama — The Yambodian Arab* attach
the French Flotilla— Victory of Copthos— Battle of Benout
— Denon's Note continued— Attach onPhiloc and Expulsion
of the Inhabitants— rMonuments in that Island— Different
periods of Egyptian Architecture — French Fort erected at
Syene— Ancient Monuments of Cenobites beyond the Cata-
racts— Battle of Kenek— Actions of Bardisf Girgeh, and
Baramba — Capture of Beneadi — Account of Murad-Bey.

Having amply detailed the operations of Napoleon in
/Syria, the failure of his attack on Saint Jean d'Acre, and
subsequent return to Cairo ; it now becomes our task to
say something respecting tbe proceedings of General
Desaix, in Vpper Egypt. It will be perceived from the
journal of M. Denon, who accompanied the General, that
we have.pretty amply dwelt npon, tbe march of tbe French,
and the difficulties tbey had to encounter; in consequence
of that circumstance we shall curtail the narrative as
much as possible, and by this means the more speedily
resume the thread of the life of Bonaparte.

Desaix* having received orders to march in pursuit of
If nrad-Bey, embarked, on the Nile, the 26th August,
1796. On the 31st of the same month he arrived at
Beash, and .took a position before thqt town, where he .
remained uulil the 4th of September, and on the following

Digitized by

■

Google

108 THE LIFE OF

day advanced to Aba Girge, where he ascertained that
the Mamelukes were at Behnese, when he proceeded, on
the 20th, to reconnoitre their position. After a difficult
march, daring which the troops had to ford many lakes,
Desaix advanced against Behnese, which he gained, as
the baggage of the enemy passed the canal of Joseph.

On the 7th September the French gained Aba Girge ;
on the 12th they advanced to Tarat el Cherif, and on the
13th took a position at the entrance of the canal St.
Joseph. Hearing the Mamelukes, who continually kept
retiring, were in force at Siut, he proceeded thither,
despatching a force to occupy Tarut el Cherif, for the pur*
pose of keeping open a communication with Cairo, and
on the 14th he arrived at Siut, from whence the enemy
fled at his approach.

On the 17th, Desaix advanced under the hope of com-
ing up with the Mamelukes, but they uniformly fled be-
fore him, on the 21st be returned to the canal St. Joseph.
On the 23d the French resumed their march and entered
Bahr Joseph, leaving six armed vessels on the Nile to
guard the entrance of the canal and the river near Tarut
el Cherif.

On the 3d of October the General descried Murad-Bey,
posted on the heights near the village of Menekiah.
Desaix, having made his arrangements, was in hopes of
bringing the enemy to action, but a few cannon-shots being
fired the Mamelukes, as upon every former occasion, re-
tired. On the 7th, at sun-rise, General Desaix having
learned that it was the intention of Murad-Bey to wait
his approach, ranged bis forces in order for battle, when
the sanguinary conflict of Sedinan, so amply detailed by
M. Denon, took place. In this affair the whole division,
generals, officers, and soldiers, behaved in a manner that
redounded to their immortal glory, as the Mamelukes
were six times more numerous than the French, and so
situated that a retreat of the latter to their vessels could
only have been effected by the abandonment of the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 109

wounded to the barbarity of their enemies. On the 8th
of October, the division, together with the flotilla, set out
for Illahon, where, upon its arrival, it seized a number of'
, the enemy's flotilla.

After the battle of Sedinan, Desaix* forwarded his
wounded to Cairo, whither he had previously despatched
four hundred men affected with the opthalmia,* a disease
occasioned by the vaponrs of the Nile, and unhappily
yery prevalent in Egypt.

On the 6th of November, Desaix left Fayum to quell
the insurgents who had been instigated by Murad-Bey to
revolt, when the natives were soon brought to subjection.
Murad-Bey, taking advantage of the General's absence,

* " In cases of opthalmia the anguish of the affected part (the
eyes,) is acute, nearly to delirium, whilst the unhappy patient retains
a consciousness that his agonies may probably terminate in the loss of
those organs, as precious as existence. The disorder is believed to
originate in the nitrous particles emitted from the ground by the
force of the sun, which are of a quality so pungent and penetrating,
as to injure the fine vessels at the corner of the eye. The acrid and
burning dust, flying continually in the atmosphere, irritates still more
the affected part ; whilst the reflection of the soil, the heat of the air,
and livid light of the sky, tend to weaken the sight, which ultimately
occasions that excessive inflammation denominated opthalmia. When
the disorder has actually taken place, the patient suffers the most ex-
cruciating pains, which are described as if the balls of the eye were
on fire, and the points of needles perpetually piercing them. The
abscess formed under the eyelids discharges a considerable quantity of
moisture, which frequently turns to matter, every membrane swells,
. and the whole eve becomes frightfully distorted.

" The affection of the malady is sometimes extremely sudden,
which induces a supposition, that checked perspiration frequently and
severely contributes to produce the disease. In a few hours the
inflammation has often attained an alarming height, of which no pre- *
cise crisis can be anticipated. With some the disorder lasts only nine
days; in others, the patients have suffered for months; and, unfortu-
nately, there is no security, even after perfect recovery, against an
immediate fresh attack.

" Opthalmia is epidemical in Egypt, its extirpation can scarcely be
expected ; but an acquaintance with all the different cases has enabled
the European physicians to discover remedies which have rendered
this disease, in some degree, less fatal. Opium was found the best
application."

Sir R. t. Wilsen, KM. T. on the Diseases of Egypt.

Digitized by

Google

HO THE LIFE OF

despatched a corps against Fay am, as well as to support
the tevolters in its vicinity ; bat General Robin and the
Cbief-of-battalion, Expert, so well defended the place,
that the Mamelukes were driven oat, by the inhabitants of
Fayam assisting the French in pursuit of the enemy.
Desaix, having learned the dangerous state of the place,
had marched to its succour, and arrived there on. the 29th
December, when he was agreeably surprised on learning
the victory gained by his forces during his absence, apon
which he instantly advanced towards the provinces of
Benesaef and Miniet, in order to anticipate Murad-Bey
in the receipt of the revenues of those districts.

Bonaparte had forwarded Davoust with a reinforcement
for General Desaix, ordering that Murad-Bey should be
vigorously pursued, even to the cataracts of the Nile, and
that the Mamelukes should either be exterminated or
driven out of Egypt. Murad advanced towards the Nile,
which he made preparations to ascend, while Desaix,
from whom he was distant twelve hoars march, in vain
endeavoured to come up with him.

Murad retired towards Upper Said, the French pur-
suing by forced marches, who gained Siut on the 24th
and Girgeh on the 29th ; bat the flotilla, detained by con-
trary winds, could not keep up with these rapid move-
ments. Murad, profiting by the consequent delays of the
French, had written to the chiefs of the provinces of Jedda
and Yamb, in Arabia, to co-operate with him in extermi-
nating a handful of infidels, who sought to destroy the
religion of Mahomet!

On the 1st of January, 1799, Desaix learned that tho
peasants had risen in revolt, ^nd were assembled in arms
near Soaage, a few leagues from Girgeh. Feeling the
absolute necessity of quelling this tumult, Davoust was
commanded to attack the mal-contents, whom he put to
flight, after killing upwards of eight hundred. Desaix
then ascertained that another corps, even more formida-
ble, had taken up arms, when he ordered the same Gene-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. J 1 \

ral to proceed and inflict on them a terrible chastisement,
which he effected by the destruction of upwards of one
thousand insurgents, the rest being pat to a preoipitate
flight.

General Desaix, at this period 9 ascertained that a coa*
siderable force had crossed the Red Sea to Cosseir, and
Joined Mnrad-Bey ; that Hassan and Osman Bey had
arrived at Houa, where a strong body of Nubians and
Mangrabins were encamped, while nearly all the popu-
lation of Upper Egypt, throngh the exertions of the
Mamelukes, from Girgeh to the cataracts, were in arms,
and ready for action ; and, finally, that Morad, relying
on his numerous reinforcements, was in fall march to
attack the French forces. This information was soon
verified, as the enemy's advanced guard, under Osman
Bey, on the 21st January, took a position near the heights
of Samanfaout.

On the 23d, Desaix came up with the main body, and
ranged his troops for battle, on which occasion Rapp*
and Savary headed the hussars ; the General attacked
the Mamelukes with such impetuosity, that they were
put to flight, during which a carabineer, who was in the
act of carrying off the standard of Mepca, was stabbed
with a poignard, being the only man killed on the side of
the French, who, by this victory, obtained possession of
Samanhout.f

* In the Memoirs of General Rapp, that gallant officer, in reference
to his promotion, when in Egypt, under the intrepid and virtuous
General Desaix, states as follows:—

" Having become the Aid-de-Camp of the modest conqueror of
Oflenburgh (Desaix), I fought under him in the campaigns of Ger-
many and Egypt. I was made the chief of a squadron at Sedinan,
where I had the happiness, at the head of two hundred brave troops,
to carry off the last remnant of the Turkish artillery ; and I was pro-
moted to the rank of colonel at Samanhout, near the ruins of Thebes.
I was severely wounded in this last affair, but I was honourably men-
tioned in the despatches of the General-in-Chief."

t All the villages in Egypt have high mud walls, flanked with little
towers of the same material, .to protect them from the Bedouin Arabs.

Digitized by

Google

112 THE LIFE OF

Notwithstanding this first advantage, the innumerable
forces of the enemy rallied, and, with frightful yells,
advanced towards the French, as if resolved on renewing
the attack. This endeavour was accompanied J>y no better
success than the previous attack, as the contest termi-
nated by a complete route of these countless hordes, of
whom three hundred were killed, and an immense number
wounded.

On the 23d January, the pursuit of Murad-Bey was
resumed ; on the 28tb, Desaix arrived at Esneh ; and,
on the 29th, he marched for Syene, which he gained on
the 1st of February. The General, on the 2d, advanced
to Philoe, in Ethiopia, and, on the 4th, again proceeded
for Esneh, where he arrived with the cavalry on the 9th.

At day-break, on the 12th, General Davoust was as-
sured that Osman-Bey was on the banks of the river,
when he advanced with his cavalry, and a dreadful car-
nage took place, for, notwithstanding the superiority of
the arms, as well as the numbers of the Mamelukes, they
were compelled to leave the field of battle, retreating
into the desert by the route their camels had taken, several
liachefs being killed in the action. In this brilliant
affair, Montleger, aid-de-camp to Davoust, particularly
distinguished himself, for, after having been severely
wounded in the heat of the engagement, and his horse
being killed under him, he rushed forward; seized the
charger of one of the Mamelukes, and then plunged into
the thickest of the fight.

On the 14th, Desaix returned to Esneh, which place
he left on the following. day for Houa, which he entered
on the 17th. During this period, General Friant arrived

At night a constant guard is mounted, and the faithful dog, who, in
Egypt, is treated with such barbarity, protects the thankless master's,
property ; for the magazines of corn are formed on the outsides of the*
walls, otherwise they would be too extended for the inhabitants of the
village to defend."— Sir J?. T. Wilson, K.M.T.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLfcON fcOffA^ARTE. UjJ

at Abounlahab, where he found multitudes in arms,
whom he attacked and put to flight, the loss of the pea-
santry in this affair being very considerable. '

After the battle of Aboumanah, General Friant marched
to Girzeb, and, daring this intervaf, Desaix learned
from General Beliard, that Murad-Bey had intended
to make a movement against Syene, but that having march-
ed to his encounter, he had forced him to retire to the
sterile plains of Barbara ; that Murad had subsequently
avoided Syene, and formed a junction with Osman-Bey,
near Kittah ; that they were on their route to Etfu, and
pursued, but without effect By other accounts, Desaix
ascertained that Elfi Bey, who had been separated from
the main body at the battle of Samanhout, having retired
to the Oases of Ackmin, had recently repaired to Stat*
where he was levying contributions in money and horses.
FinaUy, the General learned that Murad Hassan and
many other Beys had, on the 25th, appeared before
Esneh, when his Aid-de-camp, Clement, had offered them
battle, with less than two hundred men, opposed to eight
hundred cavalry and a large body of Nubians* This,
however, they had declined, being intimidated by that
French officer's courageous*. boldness ; who, after a pur*
suit of an hour, in which many were cut off, forced them
to fly with the. utmost celerity towards Arminta*

From all Desaix could collect, he concluded that the
enemy's rallying point would be Siut, and he therefore
proceeded to concentrate his forces. On the 2d March,
the General crossed the Nile, and gained Farshout on the
ensuing day, when he rapidly proceeded for Siut, to pre-
vent the junction of Murad and Elfi Bey, or instantly give
them battle, if that movement had been effected.

On the first appearance of the Mamelukes, General ■
Friant formed his troops, and then maneuvered with so
much success, that upwards of a thousand of the foe*
were either killed or drowned in the stream, and many
wounded— such proving the result of the battle of Sou-

VOL. II.— 19. Q

Digitized by

Google

}14 THE LIFE OF

hama« On the ensuing day, the Mamelukes were so
closely pursued, that Murad-Bey fled to Eleoah, the
other Beys proceeding in the direction of Siut, where
General Desaix shortly after arrived.

In the mean time, the Yambodian Arab chief, having
received bis expected reinforcements, learned that Desaix
had left his flotilla in the rear. He, in consequence,
sent intelligence to* Osman-Bey, at Kittab, who soon
after arrived with his force at the Nile. An attack upon
the flotilla then commenced, when the enemy gained se-
veral of the smaller vessels, after which they surrounded
the dgbrm, named Lltcdk, and attempted to board her,
but they were repulsed by the intrepid Morandi, the
dommander, who repeatedly fired grape-shot on bk as-
sailants. This officer, having many wounded on-board,
and seeing crowds of peasants hurrying to attack him
from the left bank, thought it preferable to escape if
possible, but having few hands to work the vessel, and
the wind being unfavourable, she soon ran aground. The
fnenty then rushed on from, every quarter, yet Morandi
still refused to surrender, when, hopeless of being able to
save the dgerm, he set fire, to her and threw himself into
the stream, where he was: fired at and speedily terminated
his gallant career; while all the unfortunate French who
escapedthe flames were cruelly massacred by the fanatical
Arabs of Yambo. This partial advantage elevated the
spirits of their chief, who spoke of the destruction of the
French as inevitable, saying, they were but a handful of
infidels, whom he was going to exterminate.

On the morning of the 8th, General Beliard crossed the
Nile, and arrived near ancient Coptbos ; when he beheld
advancing, a large force of the adherents of Hassan-Bey,
who had recently traversed the Nile at Etfu. The
French immediately ranged themselves for battle, when
the enemy impetuously rushed forward, and for a time
tfae result proved doubtful, till, a charge by the dragoons,
separating the assailants from their enemies, the route of

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. Hfl

ibe Arabs became complete, and the. victory ofCopthoi
added fresh lastre to the inadequate forces of the French.,

General Beliard marched to Benout, where, having
reconnoitered the enemy, he made the necessary dispo-
sitions, and a terrible engagement took place* in which the
Yambodian Arabs had twelve hundred killed besides a
vast number wounded* The French, after this affair,
re-took all their captured vessels, nine pieces of cannon,
and two stand of colours* In this tremendous action,
Hassan, the Yambodiam chief, fell, the loss of the French
being thirty killed and as many wounded.

General Desaix had received no intelligence from Be*.
liard since his quitting Kouha, until after the action of
Benout, from whence it is probable the Yambodian Arabs
had intercepted the despatches. By this intelligence,
.Desaix learned from Beliard, that his chasseurs had no
more than twenty-five cartridges each, that there was not.
a cannon-ball left, and bnt twelve rounds of grape. In
consequence of this information, Desaix collected am-
munition, which he expedited in vessels by the Nile, and
proceeded in person to protect the convoy. The enemy
was beaten, but not destroyed ; and, to effect the latter
object, Desaix adopted the system of moving his forces
by successive columns, thinking, by thi£ means, to com-
pel the enemy to remain entirely in the desert ; or at
least oblige him to take long and painful circuits to gain
the cultivated country.41

* We could only keep our persevering enemy at a distance from,
us, continues Mr. Denon, by starving the Country that lay between
them and ourselves ; in consequence of this, we purchased all the
cattle, paid for the green crops on the land, and the natives them-
selves assisted us in rooting up from the ground every species of
provision, following our troops with all their domestic animals. By
this means we carried off the whole population, so that nothing re-
mained behind us but a barren dessert. On my return, I was again
forcibly struck by the magnificent appearance of the edifices of
Philoe ; and I am fully persuaded, it was to produce this effect upon
strangers entering their territory, that the Egyptians had collected
upou their frontier, such a splendid.group ok monuments. Philoe .

Digitized by

Google

jig THE LIFfi OF

On the 90th of March, Desaix arrived at Keneb, sop*
plied the forces of Beliard with ammunition, and, on the

was the entrepdt of a commerce of barter between Ethiopia and
Egypt ; and wishing to jpve Afye Ethiopians a high idea of their
resources and their magnificence, the Egyptians had raised so many
sumptuous edifices on the confines and, natural frontier of their eni-

5 ire, Syene and the Cataracts. We bad another parley with the
ihabitants of Philoe, and it was more explicit : they signified to us,
that if we were to come there every day for two months successively,
they would never let us land. We were obliged to submit this time
to Uieir determination ; but as it would have given a bad example to
the country to allow a handful of peasants to brave us with such in-
solence close by our establishments, we resolved on the next day to
fry if we could not make them change their determination. Accord*
Wgly, on the morrow, we returned with two hundred men : as soon as
they saw us, they put themselves in a posture of defence, and defied
us in the manner or savages, with loud cfies, which the women repeat-
ed. The inhabitants of the neighbouring larger island, . immediately
collected in arms, which (flittered in the sun like sword-players ; some
of them were quite naked, holding in one hand a sabre, and in the
other a buckler, others had raimpart-musciuets with matchlocks, and
long pikes, and in a moment all the east side of the rock was covered
witn enemies. We still cried out to them that we were not coming
to do them any harm, and we only wanted to enter amicably into
their island ; they answered that they would never let us approach,
or furnish us with the means, of landing on their shores, and that tbey
were not Mamelukes to fly before us : this bragging speech was
closed with loucl shouts which resounded on all sides ; they wished
* for the fight ; they had defended themselves against the Mamelukes ;
they had defeated their neighbours ; and they now desired to have
the glory of resisting us, and even giving us defiance. Immediately
the order was issued to our sappers to level the huts on the shore, and
to furnish us with wood for a raft ; this act was a declaration of war :
they fired on its, and, posting themselves in the clefts and caves of
their rocks, kept up a brisk and well-directed fire. At this
moment one of our field pieces came up, the first sight of which
carried their rage to the highest pitch ; but from this time the coin-r
munication between Philoe and the larger island was broken, the
people of the latter drove off their herds and cattle, made them cross
an arm of the river, and followed them into the desert.
' We found the palm-tree wood was too heavy and took water,
which compelled us to defer the descent till the next day ; and in the
mean time our troops remained on shore, and every necessary
was collected in order to construct a raft to hold forty men. The
business employed us the whole of the following day, and the delay en-
creased the insolence of those wretches, who dared make proposals to
the General to pay a hundredpiastres to be allowed to come alone and
disarmed into the island. The scene, however, was soon changed,
when on a sudden they saw the larger island covered with our volun-
tejeri, whose descent had been protected by grape-shot; terror sue**

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. J 17

31*t, matched against the enemy, who bad taken a position
at Koub&, wbile Hassan and Osman-Bey proceeded to

ceeded, as usual, to headstrong rashness ; men, women, and children,
threw themselves into the river to escape by swimming; and,
preserving their ferocious character, we saw mothers drowning their
children whom they could not carry away with them, and mutilating
the girls to save tnem from the violence of the victors. When I
entered on the island the next day, I found a young child seven or
eight years old, who had been cut with brutal cruelty, in such a
manner, as to prevent her from satisfying the most pressing necessity
.of nature, and it was only by a counter operation and a bath, that
I was able to save the life of this unfortunate little creature, who was
very pretty. Others of a more advanced age had not recourse to such
seventies, and chose for themselves companions from among the
victors. In a word, the population of the island was dispersed in a
few minutes, having suffered a most serious and irreparable loss.

They had pillaged the boats which the Mamelukes had not been
able to convey above the falls, and had formed magazines of this boo-
ty, which made them immensely rich, in comparison with their
neighbours, and might have secured to them repose and easy cir-
cumstances for a number of years ; in a few hours they were reduced
to beggary, destitute of support, both for the present and the future,
and were obliged to go and solicit an asylum from those on whom
they had made war a short time before. Our soldiers were employed
the rest of the day in evacuating the magazines of the larger island.
The ruins in this island consist of a small sanctuary, faced by a
portico of four columns with very elegant capitals, to which had
been added at a later period another portico, which doubtless was
attached to the circumvallation of the temple. The most ancient
part, which was also constructed with more care, was ornamented
m a higher degree than the rest; the use made of it in the rites of
the catholic religion has impaired the original character, by adding
square arched door-ways. In the sanctuary, close to the figures of
Isis and Osiris, may still be seen the miraculous impression of the
feet of St. Anthony, or St. Paul the hermit.

The ensuing day was the finest to me of my whole travels : I pos-
sessed seven or eight monuments in the space of six hundred yards,
and could examine them quite at my ease, for I had not by my side
any of those impatient companions who always think that they
have seen enough, and are constantly pressing you to go to some
other object; nor had I in my ears the beating of drums as a signal
to muster, or to march, nor Arabs nor peasants to torment me.

As soon as I could set foot in the island, I began first by going
over all the inner part, to take a general survey Of the various mo-
numents, and to form a kind of topographical chart, containing the
island, the course of the river, and the adjacent characteristic
scenery. I found a convincing proof that this group of monuments
had been constructed at different periods, by several nations, and.
bad belonged to different forms of religious worship ; and the union
of these various edifices, each of them in itself regular, and crowded
together in this narrow spot, formed a diversified group of most

Digitized by

Google

]18 THE LIFE OF

Kittah.* General Beliard was also despatched to the til*
lage of Adjozi, on tfcf main ronte to Kittah. Desaix. then

picturesque and magnificent objects. I could here distinguish eight
sanctuaries or separate temples, pf different dimensions, built at
various times, and the limits of each had been respected in the con-
struction of the succeeding ones, which had impaired the regularity
of the whole. A part of the additions to the original buildings had
been made with a view of connecting the old to the new, avoiding
with great dexterity, false angles and general irregularities. This
kind of confusion of the architectural lines, which appear like errors
in the plan, produce in the elevation a picturesque effect, which
geometrical rectitude cannot give; it multiplies objects, forms elegant
groups, and offers to the eye more richness than cold symmetry can
ever command. I was here able to convince myself of the truth of a
remark which i ha»! before made at Thebes and Tentyra, which is,
that the mode of building with the ancient Egyptians was, first to
erect large masses, on which they afterwards bestowed the labour of
ages, in the particulars of the decoration, beginning their work with
shaping the architectural lines, proceeding next to the sculpture of
the hieroglyphics, and concluding with the stucco and the painting.
All these distinct periods of work are very obvious here, where
nothing is finished but what belongs to the highest antiquity;
whereas a part of the subordinate buildings, which served to connect
the various monuments, had been left in many particulars without
finish, without sculpture, and even incomplete in the building.

The great and magnificent oblong monument exhibits these dif-
ferent periods of workmanship ; it would be difficult to assign any use
to this edifice, if the presence of certain monuments representing
offerings had not pointed it out to be a temple. It has, however,
the form neither of a portico nor of a temple^ the columns which
compose its outer circumference, and which are engaged in the wall
only half their height, support aothing but an entablature and a cor-
nice, without roof or platform : it only opened by two opposite doors,
without lintels, which made a straight passage through in a lon-
gitudinal direction. As it was doubtless built in the latter period of
the Egyptian power, it shows the perfection of art in the highest
purity ; the capitals are admirable in beauty aud execution, the
volutes and the foliage are gracefully waved, "like the finest Greek
architecture, and are symmetrically diversified like those of Apolli-
nopolis, that is to say, differing from the contiguous capitals, and
similar to the corresponding ones, all being exactly kept within the
same parallel.

• A post of considerable importance. " In forming an establish-
ment in Egypt it would be necessary to erect a tower, and maintain
a garrison at Kittah, for the assurance of a free communication
between Cosseir and the Nile, and confine the Arabs, to whom, on
account of its permanent and inexhaustible springs of water, which
alone would supply an enemy driven in the desert, it is a post which
secures the mastery of a large tract of country •

Digitized by

Google

o^

NAPOLEON BONAPAltTE. flj)

marched to Birambar, where he found an excellent spring
ef water; by which operations the enemy could not stir

It gave me no little trouble to clear, in my imagination, from the
surrounding fragments, these long galleries, encumbered with ruins,
to follow the lines of the quays, to raise up the sphinx and the obe-
lisks, and to restore the broken communications between the steps
and staircases. Urged on at dnce by every kind of curiosity, and
/earing to impart my erroneous conjectures to those to whom I in-
tended to give an account of my sensations and my researches, [
wished to trace on my plan the precise state of the ruins, and the con-
fused heap of fragments, and, from such a plan, to discuss the numerous
points which were involved in doubt and uncertainty. What could
be the meaning of this vast number of sanctuaries, so contiguous to
each other, and yet so distinct ? Were they consecrated to different
divinities, were they votive chapels, or places devoted each to par-
ticular ceremonies of religious worship ? The innermost temples con-
tained still more mysterious sanctuaries, such as monolithic temples,
or tabernacles of a single stone, containing probably what was most
precious to the worshippers ; perhaps even the sacred bird, which
represented the presiding deity of the temple ; the hawk, for exam-
ple, the emblem of the sun, to whom the building might be conse-
crated. On the ceilings of the same portico were painted astronomi-
cal pictures, the theories of the elements; on the walls, religious cere-,
monies, images, priests, and gods, by the side of the gates gigantic
portraits of certain sovereigns, or emblematical figures of strength or
power, threatening a group of suppliant figures, which they grasp
with one hand by the hair of the head. Can these represent rebel-
lious subjects, or v anguished enemies? I should incline to the latter
opinion, because the figures, which certainly portray Egyptians have
never long hair.

Besides this vast enclosure, in which these numerous temples were
connected and grouped together by dwellings for the priests, there
were two temples standing apart ; the larger I have already spoken of,
the smaller is one of the most beautiful that can be conceived, in per-
fect preservation, and so diminutive that it almost creates the desire
of carrying it away. I found within some remains of a domestic scene*
which seemed to be that of Joseph and Mary, and suggested the sub-
ject of the Flight into Egypt, in a style of the utmost truth and inte-
rest. If ever we should be disposed to transport a temple from
Africa to Europe, this which I am speaking of should be selected
for the purpose; for besides the practicability of such an operation
afforded by its small dimensions, it would give a palpable proof of the
noble simplicity of the Egyptian architecture, and would show in a
striking manner, that it is character, and not extent alone, which gives
dignity to an edifice.

Independent of the Egyptian monuments, Greek and Reman ruins
are found at the south east of the island, which appear to me to be the
remains of a small port, and a custom-house, of which the wall of the
facade is decorated with pilasters and arcades of the doric order : some
standing fragments of columns show an open gallery, or a kind of por-

Digitized by

Google

120 THE LIFE OF

from the desert, without pursuing a very long arid pais*
ful "march of four days< The Beys having gained a know-

tico in front ; between these ruins and the Egyptian monuments, the
sur-hase of a catholic church may be remarked, which is built of an-
tique fragments, mixed with crosses and Greek ornaments of later
ages ; for in these Countries Catholicism has been too poor to remove
entirely her own worship from the pomp of idolatrous temples. After
having established her saints in the face of the Egyptian deities, she
has often painted a St. John or St. Paul, by the side of the goddess
Isis, and disguised Osiris into St. Athanasius; or else, quitting the *
heathen temples altogether, she has dilapidated them, and taken the
ready-made material to construct her own edifices of religious
worship.

What a profusion of objects of curiosity ! — but the time was gliding
on so fast, that I wished to stay the course of the sun. Having em-
ployed many hours in observation, I began to make drawings and
measurements ; but I saw that our people had finished clearing the
enemy's magazines, and I could not hope to return to Philoe, for I
had not here such kind friends as at Elephantina, and the troops had
already been too much fatigued with the siege of this little island. I
at last quitted the spot, with my eyes wearied out by so many objects,
and my mind filled with the various recollections attached to it : I
left Philoe with my treasures, conducting with me my little girl,
whom I entrusted to the sheik of Elephantina, in order to be restored
to her parents. , .

The plan was formed of fortifying Syene ; the engineer, Garbe", had
chosen an eminence on the south of the city on which to construct a
fort, that should command all the approaches, and overlook the ad-
jacent country. There were neither shovels, pickaxes, hammers,
nor trowels, but all these articles were forged ; bricks could not be
made for want of wood, but they were collected out of all the old
Arab buildings in the place. Our brave twenty-first regiment, like
the Roman cohorts who had inhabited the same place, knew no diffi-
culties, or surmounted them all. Every individual was required to
make two journeys daily to the spot, in order to transport materials:
many of the men could with difficulty drag their legs to the place,
but no one failed in complying with the requisition ; the bastions were
traced out, arid the labour, was conducted with so much speed, that'
in a few days the fortress began to appear above the foundations ; and
at the same time we bastioued and embattled an old Roman building,
having been a bath, in very good preservation, and which, from its
situation, had the double advantage of protecting and commanding
the river.

The termination of the march of the French through Egypt was
inscribed on a granite rock beyond the cataracts. I took advantage
of a reconnoitring party being pushed to the desert on the left bank,
to go and visit the quarries of which Pocock speaks, and an ancient
monastery of Cenobites. After marching an hour, we discovered this
monument in a small valley, surrounded with shattered rocks, and
with sands produced by their decomposition; The detachment, pur-
suing its destination, left me alone in this spot*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. J 21

ledge of the** movement*, left Kittab, and, at nudoight,
of the finst of April, they took a post in the desert, nearly
opposite De^aix ; who ascertained this circumstance from
one of their deserter*, thajt man further stating, that their
intention was to rally and join the Yambodian Arabs.

Ggner^l Jfcsaix in consequence despatched iptellU
genoe £9 Beliard, who sent a force to observe the Mftne-
lufcfls, and while he traversed the desert, Desaix, on the

The troops were hardly gone when I was alarmed at my solitary
situation. 1 was lost among long corridors, and the melancholy vaults
echoed with the sound of my feet, the only noise with which tnis pro-
found silence had been disturbed, perhaps, for ages. The cells of tnese
monks resembled the cages of animals in a menagerie ; they were
recesses seven feet square, and only enlightened by a dismal window,
six feet from the ground : this refinement of austerity, however, only
concealed from the eye of the recluse the view of the vast expanse *
.of heaven, an equally boundless horizon of sand, and a bright unin-
terrupted light, as melancholy as night, more wasting to the corporeal
frame, and perhaps more impressive of the gloomy picture of their
solitude. In this dungeon a bed of bricks, and a recess, serving as a
closet, were all the conveniences which had been added to this space
between four walls ; and a tower placed by the side of the gate, shows
also that even the austere repast of these Cenobites was taken in soli-
tude. Nothing indicated the remains of the habitation of man, but
some short sentences written on the walls; and I could trace in
these inscriptions their last sentiments, and the only memorial which
they would leave to those who were to succeed them— a vain attempt,
which time, that destroys every thing, has entirely frustrated. I pre-
sented them to my imagination as dying and still striving, with flutter-
ing speech, to utter a fe,w words. Oppressed with this succession of
gloomy objects, I hastened to the court, a space enclosed with lofty
embattled walls, covert ways, and embrasures for cannon: every
thing announced that the storms of war had succeeded the horrors of
silence in this fatal place ; that this edifice, torn from the Cenobites,
who had raised it with so much zeal and perseverance, had at differ-
ent periods served as a retreat to the vanquished, or as an advanced
post to a victorious army.

The differences of style in its construction may serve as a his-
tory of this monument. Being begun in the first ages of Catholicism,
all that was then raised still bears the mark of greatness and magnifi-
cence: what war afterwards added has been done hastily, and is
still more in ruins than the original construction. In the court a
small church, built of unbaked bricks, shows further, that a smaller
number of recluses had returned, after a considerable time, to resume
possession of these walls ; and finally, a more recent destruction seems
to indicate, that it is only a few ages since this spot has been entirely
given up to the silence and desolation that prevails around the gloomy
edifice.

VOL. II.— 19. R

Digitized by

Google

122 THE LIFE OF

second of April, proceeded to Keneb, Qne of Beliard's
hossars in front soon annoonced the appearance of a corps
of the enemy, when General Rabasse advancing too
precipitately for the purpose of reconnoitring, was at-
tacked, and haying his horse killed under him, only es-
caped by displaying feats of the most dauntless courage.
Desaix now arrived on the scene of action, when a most ob-
stinate battle took place, the French having neither infantry
nor artillery, their progress through the sand being so slow
and painful. In this encounter, supported only by cavalry,
the French lost Duplessis and Bouvaquier, two brave and
experienced officers, together with many men killed and
wounded.

At the termination of this action the Mamelukes fled to
Kittah, Beliard having received orders to pursue them
closely. After these movements, the Yambodian Arabs,
perceiving their situation to be very critical, determined
not to await the coming up of General Davoust, but cross
the Nile at Bardis.

On the fifth, in the afternoon, Morand gained Bardis,
where the Arabs, Mamelukes, and peasants advanced
shouting to the village, but after a few exchanges of mus-
quetry they fell back. The French were soon after again
attacked; but, notwithstanding the superior numbers of
the enemy, a well directed and steady fire a second time
forced them to fall back, and, favoured by the approach
of night, they made good their retreat; while Morand
marched to Girgeh. On the following day the Arabs
also advanced to that town, and while engaged in plun-
dering the market-place, the French attacked them with .
such vigour that the greater part were cut to pieces. In
the actions of Bardis and Girgeh, the Yambodian Arabs
had two hundred killed, the loss of the French being only
seven men.

On the ninth of April, General Lasalle attacked the
enemy, and, on the ensuing day, arrived at Gehemi, where
the Arabs stationed in an enclosure, received him with a

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 123

volley of musquetry and the battle commenced. The en-
olosure, after some hoars desperate fighting, was at length
forced, when the Arabs lost three hundred killed and
many wounded.

On the second of April, after the conflict at Biramba,
Desaix had marched to Keneh, in order to arrange for
an expedition against Cosseir; when several merchants
from Jedda solicited his friendship and were favourably
received. Shortly after, the General made a treaty with
the cheiks of Cosseir, and also with a Yambodian cheik,
who acted as consul for that province. He then ordered
Beliard to accelerate the preparations, erect a fort at
Keneh, and appppinted him governor of the province. of
Thebes. After these dispositions had been taken, De-
saix marched to Girgeh, of which place he named Morand
commander, and then departed for Siot, which he gained
on the 15th of May.

In the mean time Davoust drove the Yambodian Arabs
before him, but, after their signal defeat by Lasalle, their
power seemed entirely broken, and the General therefore
returned to Siot. Intelligence however soon arrived, that
the Arabs had rallied in force at Beneadi, the natives of
which place were esteemed the bravest men in Egypt.
Davoust instantly marched against that town, when Mu-
rad-Bey, whose dreary prospects had inclined him to
quit the Oases, fled again to his retreat in the desert,
the Arabs and peasants following, while the French force
directed its operations solely against the town, which
was invested and taken after an obstinate battle, nearly
two thousand of the enemy being killed, while the town
was burned to the ground. In this place large treasures
were found, among which several chests of specie en-
riched the victors.

About the ninth of May, Eppler received intelligence
that the Mamelukes had taken Syene, upon which, on
the sixteenth of the same month. Captain Renaud, having
beeir despatched thither, ascertained, prior to his arrival

Digitized by_

jGoogle

124 THE LIFE OF

at the town, that it was the enemy's intention to attack
him. Scarce had Renand made his dispositions, titan
the foe advanced at fall speed, whose attack was received
with coolness and intrepidity : Hassan-Bey, on this occa-
sion was severelyhurt by a bayonet, and Osmond received
two musket-shot wounds. This action afforded a striking
example of desperation on one side, and deliberate cou-
rage on the other ; and the Mamelnkes, in consequence of
this defeat, were obliged to retire *bove the cataracts,
where accumulated evils surrounded them.

The first care of Desaix, on his arrival at Siut, was to
provide for the expedition across the desert to Cosfretr ;
being anxious to hasten the armament against Mtrfad*
Bey,* at Elwah, which he was desirous should proceed at

• A few traits of the character of this extraordinary man, and a
brief notice of his fate, will not, we think, be uninteresting to the
reader. " Collected under misfortune, this Egyptian Fabius, who
knew how. to join patient courage with the resources of political acti-
vity, had calculated his strength, he had estimated the use he could
make of it, in the midst of the events of a disastrous war ; though he
had to struggle at once with a foreign enemy, and with all the
rivalries of jealous compeers, he maintained himself immoveably, the
chief of those whose privations, flight, and reverses he shared ; he
continued their only rallying point, he was master of their fate ; be
regulated their movements, and was their commander,- not less now
than in the day of his prosperity. ♦ * * • Murad snowed himself
worthy of being the adversary of Desaix, and that it is become
doubtful, which is most to be admired, the ingenious and repeated at-
tacks of the one, or the calm and circumspect resistance of the other. **

" Murad- Bey had fought for his independence, as long as there was.
eny prospect ofsuccess, but deserted by the Turks, and pressed by Ge-
neral Desaix, he had no other alternative than to be driven from the
whole of his government, or compromise for a part; and he judi-
ciously chose the moment to treat, when his means still made his
alliance desirable to the French, but he was never in heart reconciled
to them ; his religion and pride forbad their friendship, independent
of other motives.

t( m • • * ne na(j Deen seized with the plague, three days before his
decease, whilst gradually descending the Nile, to jom the English,
(then in Egypt,) and expired on the 22d of April, 1801 . In a fetter
to Sir W. 8. Smith, written not long previously, he said, ' How can
I be attached to the French? Have they not driven me from my.
sovereignty, my honours, and revenue ? But it is on the English faith
I can alone depend* The Turks have no right to my confidence ;' and,
when alluding to the hostility of that people against him, and the un-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. )££

the same time wMh that of Cosseir, but the appearance o¥
an Sngtish fore* off the latter place, turned all bis atten-
tion to ft. About this time, General Beliard, who vat
to bave commanded the expedition, being violently
affected with a disorder hi his eyes, Desaix sent bis
Adjutant-general, Douzelot, to replace him, or to proceed
as second in command. However, both officers set out
from Keneb on tbe 26th of May, with five hundred men
of the twenty-first. On the 29th, General Beliard took
possession of Cosseir, and of its fort, wbicb, with some
repairs and additional works, might be rendered of con-
siderable importance.

Having had so much to state on the subject of the
youthful General Desaix, the friend of Bonaparte and
the companion of Denon, we cannot better close the
present chapter, than by annexing Napoleon's opinion of
the relative merits of that experienced, brave, and virtu-
ous General, and the undaunted Kleber, concerning
whom be spoke as follows : " Of all the Generals I ever
had under my command, Desaix and Kleber possessed
the greatest talents ; and in particular Desaix, as Kle-
ber was only enamoured of glory, inasmuch as he thereby
acquired riches and pleasures; whereas Desaix loved
glory for itself, and despised every other consideration.
Desaix was altogether wrapped up in war and glory ; to
him riches and pleasures were void of value, nor did he ever
give them a moment9 s consideration. He was," continued
the Emperor, " a little black looking man, about an inch
shorter than myself, always badly dressed, sometimes
even ragged, and despising alike comfort or convenience.
When in Egypt, I presented him with a complete field
equipage more than once, but he uniformly lost it.

natural inveteracy of those professing the same faith, he thus beauti-
fully expressed himself : * Melancholy it is to reflect, that the arrow
which has stuck in tbe eagle's wing is tipped with tbe eagle's feather !' "
—Sir R. T. Wilson, K.M. T.

Digitized by

Google

|96 TUB LIFE OF

Enveloped in a cloak y Duaix would throw himself under a
gun, and sleep as contentedly as if reposing in a palace :
luxury had for him no charms. Frank and honest in all
his proceedings, he was denominated by the Arabs, ' Thr
just Sultan/ Nature had intended him to figure as
a consummate General: Kleber and Desaix were irre-
parable losses to France ; had the former lived, the Eng-
lish army in Egypt must have perished. If the imbe-
cile Menou had attacked them on their landing, with
twenty thousand men, as he might have done, instead of
sending the division of Lanusse ; th^ British army would
only proved a meal for him/9

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 127

CHAP. V.

Napoleon's Plan of Operations after arriving at Cairo-~Be
quits that City for the Pyramids of Gixah, where he
receives Information of the Fleet being anchored off Abouhir
— Bonaparte's various Dispositions previous to that cele-
brated Conflict — Situation of the Forces of Mustapha Pacha
and the Turkish Fleet — Denon's Account resumed — Voyage
up the River beyond Syene — Monuments at Ombos — Famous
Quarries of Oebel SUsilis, and sculptured Tombs in their
Vicinity— Crocodiles— Proceedings of the Mamelukes — Ar-
rival at Hermontis — Visit to the Necropolis of Thebes —
Arrival at Kous— Capture of the French Flotilla by the
Meccans — Battle of Benhute— Storming the Fortress, and
critical Situation of the French Army — The Armjf of
Bonaparte and Mustapha Pacha in Presence of each other
— Ample Detail of the Battle and Victory of Abouhir 9 with
the Storming and Surrender of the Fort.

Such was the situation of Upper Egypt and of the
army of General Desaix, when Bonaparte had arrived at
Cairo, from his expedition to Syria, whose first labour
was to organize the army, and fill op the corps, that it
might speedily be in a state to fight new battles. He had
frustrated but one part of the general plan of attack,
combined between the Porte and England, and, conse-
quently, expected he should soon have to oppose the
other dangers he had foreseen. In fact, Napoleon was
soon informed by General Desaix, that the Mamelukes
in Upper Egypt had divided ther forces ; a party having
proceeded to the Oasis of Sebabiar, with the design of
joining Ibrahim-Bey, who had returned to Gaza, .while

Digitized by

Google

128 THE LIFE OF

the other, with Murad-Bey, had descended by Fayum,
to gain the Oasis of the lakes of Natron, in order to
form a junction with a body of Arabs assembled in that
quarter, which General Destaing had received orders to
disperse with the flying column under his command.
This march of Murad-Bey, combined with the movements
of the Arabs, indicated a design of protecting a descent,
either at Aboukir or at the tower of the Arabs.

On the 10th of July, General Legrange set out from
Cairo with a flying column ; at Sababiar he surprised the
Mamelukes in their camp ; who had only time to escape
into the desert, leaving all their baggage, and seven
hundred camels. Osman-Bey, several kiachefs, and a
number of Mamelukes were killed, and fifty horses fell
into the hands of the brave men whom General Legrange
commanded. General Murat received orders to proceed
at the head of a flying column, to the lakes of Natron,
to coroperate with General Destaing, disperse the Arabs,
and cut off the communication between them and Murad-
Bey. This Officer arrived at the lakes, after making pri-
soners in his way, a.kiachef and thirty Mamelukes, who
were flying from General Destaing. Murad-Bey learn-
ing, near the lakes of Natron, the proximity of the
French, immediately made a retrograde movement, and
halted on the 13th July, near the pyramids of Gizab, on
the verge of the desert.

Bonaparte, being informed of these movements, quitted
Cairo, on the 14tb, with the cavalry and infantry guides,
the grenadiers of the eighteenth and thirty-second, the
eclaireurs, and two pieces of cannon, and advanced to-
wards the pyramids of Gizah, where be ordered General
Murat to join him.' Arrived at the pyramids, his ad-
vanced guard pursued the Arabs that were in the rear of
Murad-Bey, who, that morning, began to ascend towards
Fayum ; a few men were killed in this pursuit, and se-
veral camels taken. General Murat, who had joined the
General-in-Chief, pursued Morad Bey, on his route, for

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 129

the sjpace of fire leagues. Bonaparte, who had designed
lo bait two or three days at the pyramids of Gizah, re-
ceived intelligence from Alexandria, that* Turkish fleet
of one hundred sail bad anchored off Aboukir, on the
11th July, and manifested hostile designs on Alexandria.
He instantly departed for Gizah, where he passed the
night in making his dispositions; he ordered General
Murat to proceed to Rahmanieh with his cavalry, the -
grenadiers of the sixty-ninth, those of the eighteenth
and thirty-second, the eclajreurs, and a battalion which
was with him of the thirteenth. A part of the division
of General Lannes was ordered to cross the Nile, in the
night, and to repair to Rahmanieh ; as were also a part
of General Rampon's division. The artillery destined
for the march was also put in motion, and, during the
night, all the necessary orders and instructions were for-
warded to the different provinces.

Bonaparte recommended Desaix to order General
Friant to fall into the route of Murad-Bey, and follow
him with his flying column wherever he went ; to supply
the fortress of Keneh, in Upper Egypt, and that of
Cosseir upon the Red Sea, amply with ammunition and
provisions ; to leave an hundred men in each place, to
observe Cairo closely during the expedition against the
Turks at Abookir, to concert measures with General
Dugua, Commandant at Cairo, for the security of the
French interests in that quarter ; and, finally, to send a
moiety of his cavalry to the main body of the army. He
reinsttacted General Dugua to keep, as far as was prac-
ticable, the flying columns in the disiricts lying round
Cairo, to confer occasionally with Generals Desaix and
Regnier;, to keep the forts and citadel of Cairo well
supplied, and to retire thither in case of extremity. He
dent orders to General Regnier to superintend the provi-
sioning the forts of El-Arish> Cathieh, Salebieh, and
fielbeis ; to oppose as much as possible, with the eighty-
fifth, and the corps of cavalry under his command, all

VOL. II.— 19. s

Digitized by

Google

130 THE UFEGF

movements, whether of the Fellahs, the revolted Arabl,
the adherents of Ibrahim-Bey, or of the troops of Dgea-
zar ; and, finally, in ease of the approach of a very supe-
rior force, to order the garrisons to defend their reapeo-
tivefortresses to the last, and to retire himself with his
army to Cairo.

General Kleber was directed to advance towards Ro-
setta ; previously leaving a sufficient number of troop?
for the security of Damietta, and the province. General
Menou, who had proceeded with a flyiug column, to the
lakes of Natron, was ordered to place two hundred
Greeks, with a piece of cannon, as garrisons in the con-
vents, which are built in such a manner as to afford
places of defence ; the design of this measure was to
prevent Murad-Bey, or the Arabs, from occupying that
Oasis ; the General was then to join the force at Rahma-
nieh with the rest of his column- The General-in-Chief,
with the head quarters, left Gizah on the 16th of July,
lay that night at Ouardan ; the 17th at Teraneh ; the
18th at Shabor, and arrived on the 19th at Rahmanieh,
where the army collected on the 20th and 21st. Generals
Lannes, Robin, and Fugieres, who were employed in
the districts of Menuf and Garbieh, in enforcing the
payment of «the Miri, also joined the army on those
days.

Bonaparte reoeived intelligence that the Turkish ships,
which bad anchored in the road of Aboukir, on the 12th
July, had landed near the fort about three thousand men
with artillery, and, on the 15th, attacked the advanced
redoubt, which was taken by storm ; that the garrison in
the fort of Aboukir, the commandant of which had been
killed, had, by one of those acts of cowardice which
merit exemplary punishment, surrendered on the same
day. The fort was defended by a fosse twenty feet wide,
with a counterscarp cut in the rock, the lining of the
bastions was in good condition, and the place capable of
holding out until relief arrived. At Rosetta, however,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. ]3J

the A<ijutant-General J u lien behaved with wisdom and
bravery ; he aecti ed bis provisions, ammunition, and all
the wk, within the castle ; but be remained in the town
with about two hundred men, whom he had under bis
command ; his vigilant and spirited conduct overawed
the agents of the enemy, and maintained public confi-
dence and tranquillity in the province. General Mar*
mont (who commanded at Alexandria,) despatched in-
telligence to the General-in-Chief, that Aboukir had
surrendered on capitulation ; that they were employed in .
landing their artillery ; that he had destroyed the pon-
toons which the French had constructed ov^r the. strait
which joins the lake Madie with the road of Aboukir;
that be was informed by his agents, the enemy designed
to besiege Alexandria, and that the Turks were abont
fifteen thousand strong.

In consequence of the information received, Bona-
parte despatched General Menou to Rosetta, and a
reinforcement of troops, with orders to observe the. mo-
tions of the enemy, and defend the entrance to the Nile.
It was expected that the enemy's forces, elated by the
capture of Aboukir, would become enterprising, and
proceed either against Alexandria or Rosetta ; but the
General-in-Chief learned that, on the contrary, they were
establishing a post, intrenching, themselves in the penin-
sula of Aboukir ; forming magazines in the fort, organi-
zing the Arabs, and that tbey only waited for the co-
operation of Murad-Bey and his Mamelukes, in order to
advance. It was obvious that the enemy, in his then
situation, would daily increase in strength : it was there*
fere important to take a position,, whence he might be
attacked with equal advantage, whether he proceeded
against Rosetta or invested Alexandria; and such a
position, that, if the enemy remained at Aboukir, he
might be attacked, deprived of his artillery, driven into
the sea, or bombarded in, and compelled to surrender
the fortress.

Digitized by

Google

]32 THE LIFE OF

Bonaparte immediately pat the army in motion, and
repaired himself to Alexandria, which place he quitted
on the evening of the. 24th of July, to take up a position
at the wells of Birkit, situated at the point of one of the
angles of the lake Madie, and from which he could
march with equal facility to Etko, Rosetta, Aboukir, or
Alexandria. This point became the rendezvous of the
army.

The 25th July, at day-break, the forces began to
move ; the advanced guard was commanded by General
Moral, who had under his orders four hundred cavalry,
together with General Destaing, and three battalions,
with two field pieces. The division of General Lannes,
formed the right wing, and that of General Lanusse the
left. The division of General Kleber, expected to arrive
in the course of the day, was to form the reserve. The
artillery, escorted by a squadron of horse, followed the
main body of the army. The General of Brigade Da-
voost, with two squadrons of horse, and a hundred
dromedaries, was directed to take a position between
Alexandria and the army, as well as to oppose the Arabs
and Murad-Bey, whose arrival was hourly expected, te
secure the communication with Alexandria. Orders
were despatched to General Menou/who had advanced to
Rosetta, to proceed at day-break and take a position, at
the extremity of the neck of land at the entrance of
lake Madie, on the side of Aboukir, in order to canno-
nade, and keep at a distance any vessels of the enemy
that might be on the lake, and attempt to harass the
army on that side.

Mustapha Pacha had drawn up his first line, half a
league in front of Aboukir ; about one thousand men
occupied an intrenched sand-hill on his right, close to
the sea ; this was supported by a village, at the distance
of three hundred toises, occupied by twelve hundred
men, with four pieces of cannon. The left wing, which
consisted of about two thousand men, with six pieces of

Digitized by LjOOQIC *

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 133

cannon, was upon a detached sand-hill, about six hon-
dred toises in front of the first line ; this position, but
ill fortified, was chosen to protect the wells that are most
abundant near Abonkir. Some gun-boats appeared to
be stationed, with a view to protect the space between
this position and the second line. The enemy's second
position was about three hundred toises in rear of tbe
village ; his centre in, and near the redoubt, which he
had taken at the first landing : the right of this position
was behind an intrenchment extending from the redoubt
to the sea, for the space of an hundred and fifty toises ;
his left, stretching from thence towards the shore on the
other side, occupied some low sand-hills, on tbe verge
of the sea, where it was covered by the fire, both of the
redoubt and of tbe gun-boats ; in the second position
were nearly seven thousand men, with twelve pieces of
cannon. An hundred and fifty toises to the rear of the
redoubt, is situated the village of Abonkir, and adjoin-
ing the fort, both being occupied by about fifteen hundred
men. Eighty horsemen formed the suite of the Pacha,
who had the chief command, while the Turkish squadron
was at anchor in the road at the distance of half a
league.*

* The detachment, says M. Denon, which had left me at Philoe
now returned, in order to serve me as an escort, when I found my-
self as if rising from the tomb. With regard to the quarries which
I found in the neighbourhood, they are not those out of which the
obelisks were cut, such being always of granite, and the granite
rocks are at a distance from this spot. The rocks here are free-stone,
and the only objects of curiosity are the fragments of the inclined
roads, over which the masses of stone were rolled, and thus conducted
to the river, to be there embarked for the different edifices where
they were to be employed.

We learned that the Mamelukes, who had fled before us at Damiet,
had taken the desert on the right bank of the river, and were pro-
ceeding down the stream to rejoin Assan-Bey ; that Murad, after
violent debates, had collected all the provisions which the upper
country could furnish, and was returning by the left side through the
desert, leaving behind him only the aged Solyman, who kept posses-
sion of Bribe with eighty Mamelukes. Having nothing more to do

Digitized by

Google

134

THE LIFE OF

After a march of two hours, the advanced gurd came
within sight of the enemy, and the tirailleurs commenced

at Syene, we left it the 25th of February. I could have willingly
remained there a fortnight longer, had it not been for the burning
winds of the spring, and that my health had already sustained a pain-
ful attack ; three days of east wind in January rendered the atmos-
phere oppressively hot, as it is with us in the dog-days ; to which
succeeded so cold a north wind, that in four hours I was attacked by
a fever. In hopes of some rest, I went on board a bark ; they were
all to sail as hirfi up as the troops, who were resuming the journey which
I had just taken : and I hoped in travelling by the river to see Ombos,
and the quarries of Gebel Silsilis, which 1 had passed at some dis-
tance to mv left, during my previous excursion up the stream.

I was hardly embarked, when I experienced all the inconveniences
of this mode of conveyance. The contrary wind, the stupidity of
the natives, who could not be made to work the vessels, and the
fruitless cries of our provencds, every thing conspired to torment
us. We were a long while working up to Com-Ombos, and just then
the wind became favourable for passing it; our flotilla was in too
much haste for me to venture a proposal for stopping there a single
hour, so that I had only time to give it a glance when sailing by, and
to observe the general site, and the fine position of the monuments.
Ancient Ombos, where the crocodile was revered, is still called,
Com-Ombos (the mountain Ombos,) and is situated on an eminence
which commands the country, and projects out to the very margin of
the river. If all the fragments which are here seen belonged to a
single structure, it must have been hnmense. In the centre is a grand
portico of columns with wide capitals, in very large proportions ; on
the south, one gate is preserved entire ; it joined a wall of circum*
vallation, which is destroyed : at the west, and on the bank of the
Nile, an enormous mole was raised, which is at present in ruins at
its surmit ; the inundations of the river have laid oare its foundations
for sixty feet in depth ; they were constructed with the same solidity
and magnificence as the ornamental part. Towards the north, in a
similar direction, the remains of a temple or gallery may be seen, in
smaller proportions, with columns and capitals. In the open space
between these two last edifices, was a parapet made of hewn stone,
- which opened to the view the grand temple in the middle, and must
have produced a theatrical and magnificent effect. It is very well de-
monstrated that the Egyptians were more attached to magnitude,
even in producing picturesque beauties, than to regular symmetry ;
they supplied the want of this latter by noble piles of buildings, by
richness, by beautiful parts, and by impressive effect. Were they
.wrong in this idea? The question is of considerable magnitude.
However this may be, and whatever composed the remainder of the
ancient town of Ombos, it could not but offer a most majestic view
wh5ne|DtlJe; «nce, dilapidated as it is, and encumbered with vile
Jiuts, the forms of beauty which it displays produce a most magic
picture of splendid ruin to the beholder.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 135

a discharge of musketry. Bonaparte ordered the co-
lumns to haH, mi made bis dispositions for the attack.

The next day I was more fortunate ; we anchored opposite the
large quarries of freestone cut in the mountains, which form the
banks of the Nile here on either side. This spot is called Gebel Sil-
silis, and is situated between Etfu and Ombos. The stone of these
quarries being of an equal grain and uniform texture throughout,
blocks may be cut out of them as large as may be desired, ana it is
doubtless to the beauty and durability of this material, that we owe
the vast size and fine preservation of the monuments which constitute
our admiration at the present time, so many centuries after the date
of their construction. From the immense excavations, and the quan-
tity of fragments which may still be seen in these quarries, we may
suppose that they were worked for some thousands of years ; and
they alone might have supplied the materials employed for the
greater part of the monuments of Egypt. The distance would, in
feet, prove no obstacle to the working of these quarries, since the
Nile, during its inundation, would constantly rise so as to float the
boats which were loaded during the dry season, and carry them to
theplaces of their destination.

The mania for erecting monuments among the Egyptians, shows
itself on every side in these quarries ; which, after having furnished
materials for the erection of temples, were themselves consecrated by
monuments, and decorated with religious edifices. On the shore of
the Nile may be seen porticoes with columns, entablatures, and cor-
nices, covered with hieroglyphics, all cut out of the solid rock ; as
well as a large number of tombs, also hollowed out of the mountain.
These monuments are still very curious, though they are disfigured
by trenches and rubbish.

In several tombs small private chambers are found, many of which
contain large sealed figures ; these chambers are adorned with hiero-
glyphics traced on the rock, and terminated with coloured stucco,
representing constantly offerings of bread, fruits, liquors, fowls, &c.
The ceilings, also of stucco, are ornamented with painted scrolls in
an exquisite taste ; the floor is inlaid with a number of tombs of the
same dimensions and form as are delineated upon the cases of mum-
mies, and equal in number to the sculptured figures ; those that re-
present men have small square beards, with a head-dress hanging
behind over the shoulders ; the women have the same costume, but
nilling down in front over their naked necks. These latter are com-
monly represented with one arm passing within the arm of the figure
beside them, and the other holding a lotus flower, a plant of Acheron
the emblem of death. The tombs that contain but a single figure
are probably those of men who died in celibacy ; where three are
, contained, they represent perhaps a husband who had two wives,
either at one time or successively. The access to these tombs being
always made by violence, I could not observe how they were in-
tended to open and shut ; all I could distinguish in the fragments that
remained was, the doors being decorated with jambs covered with

Digitized by

Google

136 THE LIFE OF

The General of brigade Destaing, with his three batta-
lions, was ordered to carry the height on the right of the

hieroglyphics, and surmounted by a coping, which forms a cornice*
and an entablature whereon a winged globe is always sculptured.

On the side of these doors I have often met with the figure of a
woman in the attitude of grief; perhaps a widow lamenting the loss
of her husband.

The choice of this situation for the habitations of the dead shows,
that at all times in Egypt, the silence of the desert has been the asy-
lum of death, since even now the Egyptians carry their defunct into
the desert three leagues from their habitations, that the dryness of
the sands may preserve them from corruption ; and they go thither
every week to pray over those tombs.

On approaching Esneh we again found crocodiles ; they are not to
be seen at Syene, but re-appear above the cataracts ; they seem to
prefer certain reaches of the river, particularly from Tentyra to Om-
dos ; they abound most of all near Hermontis. We here saw three
of them ; one, much larger than the rest, was nearly twenty-five
feet long ; they were asleep, so that we could approach them within
twenty paces, and had time to distinguish all the peculiarities which
give them such a hideous aspect ; they resembled dismounted
camion. I fired on one with a heavy muskuet, the ball struck him,
and rebounded from his scales ; he made a leap of ten feet, and
dived into the river.

Four leagues short of Esneh, I saw a quay faced with stone, on
the edge of the river, and two hundred yards further was a pyranti-
dical gate, much in ruins, together with six columns of the portico
and gallery of a temple, which must have been dedicated to Chnubis.
We had a fair wind, and half a league lower we saw four other
crocodiles.

At day-break we arrived at Esneh. On landing I heard the drums
beat to muster the forces. I had already had enough of travelling
by water, so that in ten minutes after setting foot on shore I was on
horseback, turning my back on Appollinopolis and Latopolis, many
particulars of which 1 still had to examine. But such was the chance
of war; and I ought to think myself very happy that the obstinacy
of Murad caused me to visit Syene. He appeared to have had no
* other plan than that of constant perseverance, following every day
the impulse of the moment, and the event of circumstances.

The coalition of the beys was already broken ; Solyman remained
at Deir; Assan, with forty Mamelukes, had separated from Murad
as high as Esneh, and gone up to Etfu; all the shieks on the left
side must have parted from him lower down ; while Murad himself,
left alone with his three hundred Mamelukes, had been about to de-
scend below S'iut, but beinff met at Suhama, below Girgeh, by
General Friand, who had broken the assembly of troops, which he
was again collecting, he took the road to Eluah, one of the Oasesr
where he remained, waiting to see what might turn out in his favour.
There had been two actions between the Mecca soldiers and General

Digitized by

Google

napoleon bonapakte. ^37

feftfemy, wliick was occupied by about a thousand men ; at
the same time a' picket of cavalry was sent to cat off the

Friend on the left bank, between Thebes and Kous ; six hundred of
these adventurers had perished in the two encounters; but it was
said that the sheref of Mecca himself was advancing with six thou-
sand troops to join the eight or nine hundred that remained out of
the first crusade.

We arrived at Hermontis on the morning of the 4th of March where
we naked, in order to procure intelligence of the Mamelukes, the
Meccans, and the several detachments of our army, which was at
this moment distributed over a considerable extent of country.

I had now a better opportunity of observing the site of the ancient
town, which had had a wall, of circumvaHation, and several temples.
But for ever temples I not a single public edifice, not a single house,
nor even royal palace, which had been able to resist the ravages of
time! What then were the people, and who the sovereigns! It
should seen that the former were composed of slaves, the latter pious
leaders, and the priests humble and hypocritical despots, concealing
their tyranny from the people by the name of a vain monarch, and
possessing all the science that was then known, which they wrapped
up in emblem and mystery, to raise a barrier between them and the
people. The king was served by priests, counselled by priests, fed
by them, instructed by them ; every morning, after havipg dressed
him up, they read to him the duties of a sovereign towards his reli-
gion ; they then ted him to the temple ; and the rest of the day, like
the doge of Venice, he was never without six counsellors who still
were priests. With such precautions, they perhaps might be tole-
rably secure of never having a very bad king ; but what was the
gain for the people, if the priests supplied his place ? The only two
sovereigns woo, according to history, dared to shake off the yoke,
were Cheops and Cephrenes, who shot up the temples for twenty
years : but these were regarded as impious and rebellious princes,
and were recorded as such in the annals which the priests composed
and handed down to posterity*

The palace with a hundred chambers, the only one mentioned in
the history of Egypt* was the work of a new form of government,
in which the priests no longer possessed the same influence. The fa-
mous canals, of which history speaks so pompously, have preserved
no magnificence, have neither causeways nor sluices, and the only
.facings and quays that I have met with on the banks of the Nile are
very trifling works, compared to those colossal and immortal tem-
ples, whose precincts occupied a very large proportion of the space
included within the walls that surrounded the towns. The Jesuits of
Paraguay, perhaps might have let us into the secret of theocratic
dominion; and in this case I should see in the rich country of
Egypt nothing but a gloomy and mysterious government, weak
kings, and a sad unhappy people.

Cm the 8th we set out on our march to meet Osman-Bey, who, we
were informed, was to pass the Nile at Keneh. I had again the
▼OL. II.— 19 T

Digitized^ C

1.38 THE LIFE OF

retreat of this body, to the village. The division of
General Lanpes was to advance against, the detached

mortification of crossing the ground occupied by ancient Thebes,
with still less opportunity of examining it than at first ; without mea-
suring a single column, without approaching a monument, we fol-
lowed the course of the Nile, avoiding both the temples of Med i net-
Abu, the Memnonium, the temples of Kurnu, which I passed on
my left, and those of Luxor and Karnak on my right — still temples-
nothing but temples ! and not a vestige of the hundred gates so cele-
brated in history ; no walls, quays, bridges, baths, or theatres; not
a single edifice of public utility or convenience ; notwithstanding all
the pains which I took in the research, I could find nothing but tem-
ples, walls covered with obscure emblems, and hieroglyphics, which
attested the ascendancy of the priesthood, who still seemed to reign
over these mighty ruins, and whose empire constantly haunted my
imagination.

The space occupied by this incomprehensible town, now infolds
four villages and as many hamlets, which appear thinly scattered
over vast fields : as a few wild shoots recal to the passenger the exist-
ence of some stately tree, celebrated by the majesty of Us shade, or
the abundance of its fruit. Quitting with regret this famous district,
we halted in the village on the west side, the quarter of the ancient
Necropolis, where I again found the inhabitants of Kurnu disputing
our entrance into the tombs, which they had taken up as their
asylum. We must have killed them before they could have been
persuaded that we did not mean them any iharm, and .we had not
time to enter into dispute ; we therefore contented ourselves with
blockading the openings, whilst we took a short repast on the spot.

Towards the evening one of our spies gave us notice, that the sol-
diers from Mecca, united to Osman-Bey, were intrenched at Benhute,
three leagues before Keneh, where they were waiting for us : he told
us further, that they had artillery, and were determined on hostili-
ties, and running the chance of a battle; adding, that they had
stopped several of our barks on the Nile ; and after an obstinate
combat, in which many of the peasants and Meccans had been killed,
the French had been overpowered by numbers, and alt massacred.
We slept on the banks of the river, which was to be passed before
we could come up with the enemy ; and waited for our barks. We
soon were convinced, beyond a doubt, of being seen by the enemy
from the opposite shore, as we perceived armed horsemen constantly
passing ana repassing. We then marched back to meet our convoy,
which we soon joined ; when all the rest of the day was employed in
passing the river, which we made good at £1 Kamoutch. On the
10th we resumed our march, and, on our arrival at Kous, the report
which we had heard rn the evening was confirmed.

Kous, which stands at the entrance of the opening of the desert
leading to Berenice and Cosseir, is still beautiful on the south side.
Its immense . plantations of melons, and numerous and abundant
gardens, must make.it appear delicious to the inhabitants of the shore*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. |3#

sand-hill, on the left of tbe enemy's first line, where two
thousand men and six pieces of cannon were ; stationed;

of tbe Red Sea, and to the thirsty travellers who have just crossed
the desert. It has succeeded to the commerce and catholic establish-
ment of Copthos ; for the Copts are still its most numerous inhabit-
ants. Their zeal induced them to give us all the intelligence they
had been able to collect, and they accompanied us in person, and
followed our troops with their good wishes to the very confines of
their territory. I was struck with the sincere interest which the
shiek expressed for our fate, who, believing that we were marching
on to inevitable death, gave us the most circumstantial advice, with-
out concealing any of the dangers to wbich we were exposed, advi-
sing us with great judgement on every particular which could render
the encounter less fetal, and following us as far he could, when he de-
parted with tears in his eyes. Desaix had before been a week at
Kous, and seen much of the sheik ; and the tender interest wbich
the latter showed for us, was the natural result of the favourable opi-
nion he must have formed of the frank and communicative disposition
of our leader, and of that mild and unvarying equity which after-
wards acquired for him the title of the Just ; the most honourable
appellation which could be obtained by a conqueror and a stranger,
arrived in an enemy's country for the purpose of making war.

We took little heed of the battle* in which it was said our boats
had been engaged, and were far from having a just idea of the impor-
tance of the intelligence given us. We were now but four leagues
off the enemy ; an hour after our march through .Kous we observed
at the foot of the desert, the ruins of Copthos, famous in the fourth
century for its commerce with the east : nothing of its ancient splen-
dour can now be distinguished ! but the extent of ruins, with wbich
it is surrounded, points but the site of the ancient city. All that re*
mains of the old town is as dry and uninhabited as the desert, on
the borders of which it is situated.

We were scarcely past Copthos, when we learned that the enemies
had begun their march ; we halted, and, after a slight repast, resumed
our course to meet them. We soon perceived their standards, which
were distributed over more than a league of ground ; and continued
to advance in the order we had first taken, that is to say, a square
battalion, flanked with a single three-pounder field-piece, and fifteen
cavalry: we looked like a single point coming across a line. Soon
the shouts of tbe enemy were heard, and we came to action at a vil-
lage, wbich the extremity of their line had just occupied : we
detached our marksmen, who immediately were closely engaged with
them ; but, notwithstanding several shots from our field-piece, they
did not give way, for their rash valour supplied the want of sufficient
arms. After this advanced, body bad been cut to pieces, rather than
routed, we found greater resistance in the villages, where the enemy
were more on an equality with us* by having some fire-arms, and
the protection of. walls ; we however repulsed them as far back as
another village a quarter, of a league farther off. At this moment the

Digitized .by

Google

14© THE LH?E GF

two squadrons of horse were despatched to -observe the
motions of this oorps, and to endeavour to cat off iU

Mamelukes began to parade before us, and to make a fetht of char-
ging our right, to divert us from pursuing the advantage that we had
just gained over their ally : however, we marched straight up.to them,
without discontinuing the engagement with the. Meccans : when some
discharges of cannon, delivered us from the Mamelukes, who were
not so much in earnest as the Meccans, and only wished to try if the
number and valour of their allies would compel us to detach against
them so many of our men as would weaken our grand square, and
allow them to charge us with advantage- Having dislodged the in-
fantry of our enemy from the second village we came to a small plain
before Benhute, where we knew that the greater. body of the enemy,
was intrenched, and to which all the fugitives. had retired. We ex-
pected to have a bloody battle, but not to be cannonaded in form by
a battery which fired both grape and bullets,, reaching our square,
and even going beyond us. I now saw death close .at my sidle ; in
the short space of ten minutes three persons were killed whilst I was
speaking to them. - 1 dared no longer converse with any one, for me
last was struck by a ball, which we both saw coming up ploughing
the ground before it, and appearing to be almost spent. My friend
lifted up his foot to let it pass him, when a sodden leap of the ball
struck him on the heel, and tore the muscles of his leg, making a
wound which the next day proved fetal to thi3 young officer, as we
wanted the necessary instruments for amputation.

We fancied that, according to the custom of the country, their
unmounted pieces were capable but of one direction: we were, how-
ever, not a little surprised on perceiving that their balls followed our
movements, so as to oblige us to quicken our pace in posting our-
selves in front of the village, where we maintained the action, while
the carabineers and chasseurs proceeded to turn their battery, and to
carry it at the bayonet's point. The moment the drums beat to
charge, the Mamelukes came forward to the attack of our carabi-
neers, who, after having received them with a discharge of musketry,
by which they were repulsed, stormed and carried the battery,
making a general massacre of all those who served the artillery.
These guns were French: and were found on inspection to nave be*
longed to V Italic, the commodore's bark of our flotilla. ' We Were
in hopes that after this important capture the battle would terminate,
by the dispersion or flight of the army of Meccans : a part of which,
however, maintained its ground for a considerable time in a small
grove of palm-trees; while the other which was still more numerous,
made a retreat, we dared not harass, since, whenever we passed be-
yond the thickets and enclosed grounds to effect a rapid movement,
the Mamelukes, by whom we- were constantly flanked, had it in
their power to attack and drive us back. It was therefore necessary
to march in order of battle, and with the troops formed to reoewe
them. During six hours we had been unceasingly etogBged with aft
enemy, undisciplined It is true, but brave, fanatic* and tenfold sw

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 141

retreat. The rest of the c&tafty were to advance ngaitast
the centre, and the division of General Lanosse was to
remain in the second line.

number, who attacked with fury and made an obstinate resist*
ance, never retreating unless in a body, insomuch so that it became
necessary to cut off in detail the detachments as they advanced.
Worn out, and panting with the extreme heat, we stopped a moment
to take breath. We were utterly destitute of water, of which we
never had stood so much in need. I recollect finding, in the heat of
action, a jug of water at the extremity of a wall, when not having
time to drink, I. poured the contents on my bosom, to allay the
burning beat by which I was tormented.

So long as our enemies kept possession of their batteries, they re*
treated confidently, having supplies of men on whom they could de-
pend. We were then of opinion that it was their intention to bring
us, by a feigned retreat, within the reach of these batteries. But
when we had lost them, we considered that, as the small wood to
-which they had retreated, was become their last and only point of
defence, they would either try the chance of a decisive action, swim
across the Nile, or, ioin the Mamelukes, and disappear with them,
which it was impossible for us to prevent. On approaching the wood,
we perceived, however, that it contained a laiwe village, with a for.
tress belonging to the Mamelukes, provided with bastions and battle-
ments, the approach to which was rendered still more difficult, as
the enemy were provided with arms and ammunition of every
description, which we found bad belonged to us, both by the distance
to which the balls were sent, and by the bails themselves. We were
employed for upwards of two hours in attacking this, fortress on every
side, without being able to find any point from which the enemy did
not assail us, successfully. Sixty men were killed, and as many
wounded. On the approach of night we set fire to the houses in the
vicinity, took possession of a mosque, cut off tlie enemy's retreat by
the Kite, and endeavoured to mount afresh the guns we had recap-
tured. On their side, the besieged were employed in augmenting
the number of their battlements, in constructing low batteries* and in
pointing guns which they had not as yet brought into use. Several
peasants, who had escaped both from the fire of the besiegers and
that of the besieged, found their way to us, and informed us, . that on
the day after the departure of General Desaix in pursuit of Murad-
fiey, toe Meccans, who had recently qoitted the desert, attacked
V Italic and t he flotilla under her protection; when, after a severe
conflict of twenty hours, the crew of the commodore's bark had run
bet aground, and, from an apprehension of being boarded, set 'fire
to her, and entered the small barks, but that ultimately all our un-
fortunate men had been killed. They added, that since that time the
Meccans hud been employed m collecting the means. of attack and
defence with which their conquest bad supplied them; That they
sunk one of ear vessels, to force ail those who should navigate the

Digitized by

Google

142 THE LIFE OF

General Destaing, with the force, under his orders,
charged the enemy with the bayonet; they abandoned

river to pass within reach of their battery ; and had thus rendered
themselves masters of the Nile. And, finally, that, notwithstanding
all the losses they had sustained in men, they were still very nume-
rous and resolute.

At day-break we began to batter the fortress, with a view of ma-
king a breach : as it was, however, constructed of unbaked bricks,
each bullet simply made a hole, without bringing down any part of
the building. The flames at the same time effected no progress, on
account of the court-yards, which separated the principal building
from the circumvallation. At nine in the morning the Mamelukes
advanced with their camels, as if with a view to throw succours into
the place. A party was sent out against them, and tbey retreated
after a slight resistance. General Beliard, perceiving that the result
of the palliative means hitherto employed had been productive
of a loss of time and of men, gave orders for an assault, which was
given and received with unexampled valour. The first circumvalla-
tion was opened under the enemy's fire ; and, notwithstanding the
incessant discharges of musketry from the besieged, by whom a sortie
was made, combustible matters were introduced which annoyed them
in their retreat. One of (heir magazines blew up, and the flames ex-
tended in every direction. Being without water, they extinguished
the fire with their feet and bands, and even endeavoured to smother
it by throwing themselves on it They were seen, black and naked,
running through the flames, resembling so many devils, so that I
could not view them- without an emotion of horror blended with ad-
miration. Intervals of tranquillity succeeded, when a solitary voice
resounded, which was answered by sacred hymns and warlike shouts.
The enemy then rushed on us from all sides, notwithstanding the
certainty of death.

Towards the close of the evening we stormed ; and this operation
was long and terrible. Twice we penetrated into the interior of the
fortress, and twice we were driven back. I was not so much terrified
by the losses we sustained, as the reflection that we had fresh efforts
to make against an enemy whom we could not intimidate, and I knew
besides, that we were reduced to our last box of cartridges. In the
latter of these two attempts to storm, Captain Buliiot, an officer of
distinguished bravery, but rash, heedless, and imprudent, perished.
Having a foreboding of his approaching dissolution, he drew me to-
wards him, squeezed my hand, and bade me a mournful adieu. A
moment after, I saw him dragging himself along on his hands and
feet, and endeavouring to snatch his body from the jaws of death. .

When night drew on, hostilities were suspended. As we had been
engaged during two days, it was necessary to take a little breath.

Painful duties succeeded to the dangers of the combat We beard
the cries of the wounded, having no remedies to administer, and en
whom we could not perform the most urgent operations. for want of
instruments. Our loss in men had been very considerable, and we

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 143

their intrenchments, and retreated towards the village,
bat the greater part of the fugitives were cat down by

had still many enemies to subdue. The necessity of sparing our gal-
' lant troops made us substitute for an attack by storm the expedient of
burning the enemy's buildings. For this purpose two fires were
kindled; posts were stationed at all the avenues : which were relieved
from time to time to render the duty less severe. As our danger re-
quired an exactness of service and discipline, the troops reposed in
battle array. Towards the middle of the night, a donkey, followed
by a she-ass, entered the quarters at full speed.. In a moment every
one was up and at his post, amidst silence and good order as striking
as the occasion was ridiculous.

An unfortunate Coptic bishop, a prisoner in the fortress, made his
escape, under shelter of the darkness of night, with a few followers,
and, having been exposed in his flight to the fire of our advanced
posts, reached us, covered wiih wounds and contusions. After
having taken some refreshments, he entered into a detail of the hor-
rors from which he had just escaped. During the last twelve hours,
the besieged had been without water ; their walls were heated
through ; their swollen tongues choked up the passage of the air ;
and, in short, their situation was terrible. In reality, a few minutes
after, and an hour before break of day, thirty of the besieged, who
were the best armed, forced a passage through one of our advanced
posts. At dawn our troops entered by the breaches that the fire had
made, and put to the sword those who, notwithstanding they were
half roasted alive, still offered resistance. One of them, who ap-
peared to be a chief, was brought to the General. He was in so
swollen a state, that in endeavouring to stoop in order to seat himself,
his skin cracked in every part. " If," said he, " I am brought
hither to be killed, I beg that you will hasten and put me out of my
misery." He was accompanied by a slave, who regarded his master
with so deep an expression of grief, that I felt an esteem both for one
and the other. The dangers by which this slave was surrounded
could not alienate for a moment his affectionate concern for his
master. He lived for him alone : he viewed him ; and. could see no
other object. What looks ! how tender and how deep a melan-
choly ! How good must he have been, who was thus cheristfed by
his slave \ However deplorable his lot, I could not help envying
him who was thus beloved. Recurring to my own situation, I said
to myself: — To satisfy an idle and vain curiosity, here am I, a thou-
sand leagues distant from France, surrounded by my valiant country-
men, among whom I seek a friend. Yesterday I *was in the com-
pany of warriors, whose excellent qualities "t esteemed, and whose
transcendant bravery I admired : to-day I attend their funeral ; and
tomorrow I shall abandon their remains on tHe foreign soil to which
my ill-fated steps have conducted me. It was but just now a young
man, replete with health and courage, braved the enemy whom "he
was about to combat. I saw him attack where danger was most im-
minent : I beheld him fall ; and heard the accents of grief which

Digitized by

Google

J44 ™& ^IFE OF

the cavalry! l%e corps against which Ule division of
General Lannes advanced, seeing that stationed on the
right give way, and that the cavalry was about to turn
its position, attempted to retire, after discharging a few
cannon shot ; but the two squadrons of cavalry and a
platoon of guides cut off its retreat, and either killed or
precipitated the whole corps into the sea, not a man

succeeded the expressions of his valorous impetuosity. He appealed
in vain ; and as he dragged himself along, the fire communicated to
the cartridges he had about him. His body and limbs were muti-
lated by the explosion; but Mill his voice was heard. I saw him ex-
pire ; and to-morrow— to-morrow the post that he held will console
for his loss the companion by whom he is to be succeeded. O man !
from what source do you draw your virtues, if such ignoble passions
lurk in the most honourable of all professions? This is a cruel ego-
tism which misfortune does not correct, and which becomes atrocious,
seeing that danger forbids it to be concealed. In a state of warfare it
is best appreciated, and its terrible effects more particularly felt.
Let us direct our view, however, to the advantageous side of the pro-
fession.

On the morning of the 93d of March, General Beliard pardoned
the prisoners he had made, and, by dismissing them, they became ac-
quainted with our generosity, and with the difference of our customs
from theirs. Several of them, impressed with gratitude, and with
tears in their eyes, demanded permission to follow us.

The Mamelukes again made their appearance. On our going out
to meet them, we found that this was a false attack which they had
contrived, to afford them time to load their camels with water. As
we had put an end to the siege, we pursued them to the desert, where
we had an opportunity of seeing all their forces collected together.
They consisted of a thousand horse, as many camels, and about two
thousand foot. The rest of their army was made up of the Meccans
whom they had so perfidiously drawn into their quarrel, and after-
wards abandoned in so dastardly a manner. We fancied at first that
they were about to penetrate into the desert ; they however took up
• their station on a rising ground, regulating their movements by ours,
and having in their rear horsemen, who apprised them by discharges
of musketry of the halts which we made, as well as of our advances.
We felt more than ever the inutility of pursuing them when they
would nor fight, and h^w impossible it was to surprise them in a
country where they had/ on each side of the river, a retreat always
open, and which was secure to tbem as long as they should be supe-
rior in cavalry, and able to protect their camels. We therefore gave
up a useless pursuit, and very. wisely returned to secure and protect
our barks. The remainder of the day was spent by the General in
collecting together and putting on board the guns, ammunition, and
^warlike implements which we had recaptured.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 145

escaped in thi* affair, during1 which Hercule, comman-
der of the hone guides, was wounded. * General Des-
taing's force then marched against the village, which
nearly fronted the centre of the enemy's second line, this
post he turned while the thirty-second demi-brigade at-
tacked it in front. The enemy here made a spirited re-
sistance ; a considerable number of men were detached,
from the left of the second line, to the relief of the
Tillage; but the reinforcement was charged and routed
by the cavalry, which drove the greater part of the fugi-
tives into the sea. The village was then speedily carried,
and its defenders pursued as far as the redoubt, that was
in the centre of the second position. This post was very
strong, the redoubt being flanked by a work which co-
vered the peninsula, on the right, as far as the sea;
another work of similar construction extended to the
left, but to a small distance from the redoubt ; the rest
of the space was occupied by the enemy, who were
posted on the sand-hills, and among groves of palm
trees.

While the troops took breath, several pieces of artil-
lery were planted at the village, and along the shore, and
a fire was opened on the enemy's right, and on the re-
doubt; General Destaing's battalions, drawn up near the
village they, had carried, formed the centre of the line of
attack, and fronted the redoubt; they were ordered to
advance. General Fugieres received orders to form the
eighteenth demi-brigade in column, and march along the
shore, in order to force, by the bayonet, the right wing
of the enemy. The thirty-second, occupying the left of
the village, bad orders to bold the enemy in check, and
to support the eighteenth. The cavalry, which was pla-
ced on the right of the army, attacked the enemy's left,
charging it several, times with great impetuosity ; it cut
down, or drove into the sea all before it, but could not
penetrate beyond the* redoubt without being placed be-
tween: its. fire and that of the gun-boats. Impelled, how-

VOL. II.— 20. u

Digitized by

Google

]46 TH£ LIFE OF

ever, by their ardour into this terrible situation, th*p
were obliged to fall back, while the thinned ranks of the
enemy were continually supplied by fresh troops:

This resistance, and these obstacles, oijly irritated the
boldness, and stimulated the courage of the cavalry to
new attacks ; at each charge they rushed forward to the
very fosse of the redoubt ; and, in this attempt, the Chief?
of-Brigade Duvivier was killed. The Adjutant-General
Roize, who directed their movements with equal cool-
ness arid talent, JBessieres, Chief-of-Brigade of the Ca?
valry Guides, and Adjutant-General Le Turq, were at
the head of the several charges. The horse artillery aqd
that of the guides took a position in face of the enemy's
musketry, whence, by a brisk discharge of grape-shot*
they powerfully contributed to the success of the battle;.
Adjutant-General Le Turq judged that a reinforcement
of infantry was requisite; he represented this to the
General-in-Chief, who sent him with a battalion of the
seventy-fifth ; when he rejoined the cavalry, but his
horse being soon killed, he put himself at the head of
the infantry, With this yiew be flew to the centre of the
left to join the eighteenth demi-brigade, which be saw
advancing to attack the intrepchments of the enemy's
right. The eighteenth pontinued to advance; the enemy
at the same time made a sortie from tfceir position in the
same direction, and .engaged the fronts of the columns
man to man ; on which occasion the Turks endeavoured
to wrest the bayonets from the French, those weapons
being found so destructive ; when, in despair, they flung
their own muskets behind them, and fought with the
sabre aqd pistol. A\ length the eighteenth reaphed the
intrenchments, but the fire from the redoubt, which every
where flanked the trenches, behind which the enemy had
again rallied, stopped the column, General Fagieres
and Adjutant-General Le Turq displayed prqdigies
pf valour ; the former received a wound in the head ; bat
nevertheless continued to fight; seen after, a ball carried

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. J47

away kl* left arm, and be was constrained to Mow tka
taoveaents of the eighteenth, which, in the greatest- or*
ier, and maintaining a brisk fire, retreated to the village.
Adjutant-General Le Tarq, having vainly endeavoured to
determine the column to throw itself into the enemy's in*
treaobments, leaped therein himself, bat being alone,
be soon met a glorious death ; previous to which, the
Cbiefrof-Brigade Morangie was wounded, and twenty
brave fellows of the eighteenth killed upon the spot,
tie Tnrks, in face of the heavy fire from the village,
then rushed from their intreochments, in order to cut off
the beads of the dead and wounded, that they might ob-
tain the silver aigrette, which their government bestows
on every soldier who brings the head of an enemy.

The Generatin-Chief had ordered a battalion of the
twenty-second light infantry, and another of the sixty-
nintb, to advance upon the left of the enemy; General
Lannes, who was at their bead, seized the moment in
which the Turks had imprudently quitted their intrdnch-
mepts, to storm the redoubt; he attacked it with th4
greatest vigour on the left flank, and on its gorge ; the
twenty-second, the sixty-ninth, and a battalion of the
seventy-fifth, leaped into the ditch, were soon upon the
parapet* and within the redoubt; at the same time the
eighteenth charging the right of the enemy with the bay*
onet General Murat, who then commanded the advan-
ced guard, and accompanied all the movements of the
tirailleurs, took advantage of the moment in which
General Lannes stormed the redoubt, to order the cavalry
to charge, and to break through all the positions of the
enemy, to the very ditches of the fort. This operation
was executed so opportunely* and with such vigour and
effect, that, at the moment the redoubt yas forced, the
cavalry were on the spot to cut off the enemy's retreat to
the fort, and their rout was therefore complete^ The
enemy, confused and terror-struck, beheld death on every
aide; the infantry charged them with the bayonet; the

Digitized by

Google

148 THE LIFE OF

cavalry cat them down with the sabre : no alternative but
the sea remained. To this sad resource the rented enemy
fled, as a last refuge. Ten thousand men committed
themselves to the waves -r showers of musketry and grape*
shot followed them : — never did so terrible a sight pre-
sent itself ; not one man survived ! the ships were two
leagues distant in the road of Aboukir. Mustapha-
Pacha, the Commander-in-Chief of the Turkish army,
and two hundred men, were made prisoners ; about two
thousand remained dead on the field of battle. All the
tents and baggage, twenty pieces of cannon, of which
two had been given to the Grand $ignior by the Court of
London, fell into the hands of the French. Two English
boats saved themselves by flight. The fort of Aboukir
did not fire a shot ; all within were panic-struck. A flag
of truce was sent out, by which it appeared thst the fort
was defended by twelve hundred men ; it was proposed
to them to surrender ; some were inclined to agree, while
others refused ; the day was spent in pafleying; at length
a position was taken, and the wounded were removed.

This glorious affair cost the French army an hundred
and fifty men killed, and about seven hundred wounded;
among the latter was General Murat, who had so greatly-
contributed in gaining the victory. The Chief-of-Brigade
Cretin, of the engineers, an officer of consummate me-
rit, and Guibert, aid-de-camp to the General-in-Chief/
died of their wounds. In the night the enemy's, squa-
drons communicated with the fort, the garrison of whioh
was re- organised and defended it; accordingly batteries
of cannon and mortars were erected for its reduction.
During these operations, Bonaparte repaired to Alexan-*
dria, the condition of which he examined. The conduct
of General Marmont, with respect to the fortifications;
and the state of every branch of the military service,
could not be too highly praised ; in a word, it fully justi-
fied the confidence placed in him by Napoleon, when be
conferred on that officer the command of so important a
place.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. m |49

Od the 26th July, the fort of Aboakir was summoned
to surrender/ The son of the Pacha; bis kiaya, and the
officers, were willing to capitulate, but the* soldiers re-
fused. On the 27th, the bombardment was continued,-
On the 28th July, several batteries were erected on'th*
light and left of the isthmus; some gun-boats were sank j
and a frigate was dismasted and forced to pat to sea.
The same day the besieged, who began to be destitute of
provisions, got into some houses of the village which
joined the works ; General Lanqes approached to attack
them, but was severely wounded in the leg, when Gene*
ral Menou succeeded him in the command of the siege.
On the 30th July, General Davoust forced the trenches,
and those houses wherein the enemy was lodged; and,
after some. slajgbter, drove his opponents into the fort:
The ttfeafy-second demi-brigade of light infantry, and
the Chief-of-Brigade, Magny, who was slightly wounded;
behaved admirably; the success of this day, which hast-
ened the redaction of the fort, is to be ascribed to the
conduct and resolution of General Davoust.

On the 2d of August, General Robin made himself
master of the trenches; batteries were raised on the
oounterscarp, and the mortars played with vigour, so that
the fort became' little more than a heap of stones. The
besieged had no communication with the squadron, and
were in extreme want of provisions, yet they did not ca-
pitulate, which is customary with the Turks, who at
length threw down their arms, arid came in a crowd to
embrace the knees of the victor. The son of the Pacha,
the kiaya, and two thousand men, were made prisoners.
In the fort were found three hundred wounded and
eighteen hundred dead ; some of the bombs had killed as
many. as six men each. Within four and twenty hours
after the garrison surrendered, more than four hundred of
the prisoners died through excessive eating and drinking.'
Thus the actions at Aboakir cost the Port eighteen thou-
sand men, and an immense quantity of cannon.

" Digitized by

Google

J50 THE LIFE OF

The commandant of the artillery, Fa ul trier, and the
engineer officers, Bertrand and Liedot, distinguished
themselves highly on the recent occasions. Order and
tranquillity reigned throughout the country, durng the
fifteen days which the expedition to Aboukir had con-
tinued, a signal operation which terminated the glorious
exploits of Napoleon Bonaparte in Egypt.*

4 From the period when Bonaparte quitted France for Egypt,
namely, the 19th May, 1798, until his sailing from the latter country
on the 23d August, 1799, the following were the leading intercalary
events that took place in Italy and Germany, with regard to the
operations of the French forces :—

On the 2d December, 1798, General Macdonald defeated the
Neapolitans at Monterosi, and two days after at Civita tastellana.
. On the 6tb, Championnet routed General Mack and General
Mathieu, re-possessed himself of Antricoli from the Neapolitans.

On the 14th, General Macdonald entered Rome, and, on the 23d,
Kellermao defeated General Damas at Montalto.

On the SOth, General Broussier having forced the enemy into an
ambuscade, completely routed him, and, on the 21st January, 1799,
the French forces, under Kellerman and Duhesme, directed their,
march in order to effect a junction with Championnet, when, after
traversing the Appennines, in spite of opposition, they captured
Sulmona and hernia by assault, and the right wing of the Neapolitans
being completely turned, a truce was agreed upon, the latter sur-
rendering up Capona, with half of the kingdom and eight millions,
that capitulation being acceded to by the king, who had fled
to Sicily. The French then traversed the Wolturno, establishing,
their head-auarters at Cusezte, one of the royal residences, at
which period a revolution, as unexpected as extraordinary, compelled
the French to resume their military operations and march upon Naples.
The Lazzaroni, in beholding the French commissary, who pre-
sented himself to raise the sums agreed upon, attacked the Royal
Neapolitan troops, whom they disarmed, taking possession of the
guns, stores, &c. in the arsenal. They then assailed the French
camp, a measure that was imitated by the surrounding towns, upon
which Championnet found himself necessitated to attack Naples,
and a most desperate and sanguinary conflict ensued ; the' Lazzaroni,
however, were ultimately forced to submit, and the city was given
up amidst shouts of " Viva la UbcrtaJZ' ,

In Germany, from the 1st MtffbhV 1799, when hostilities re-com-
menced, many battles were fotfght, and General Jourdan effected his*
retreat, while Massena no less distinguished himself against the, 4rch-
duke Charles and General Suarrow, whom he completely routed, at
the sanguinary battle of Zurich, an event that occurred on the 30tk
September, 1799, one month subsequently to the sailing 0/ Napoleon
from Egypt for Europe.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, Jftl

CHAP. VI,

Napoi^eok embdrhs for France— Effect produced on the
' Army by his Departure — Kleber appointed Commander-in-
Chief— Description of that General— The Grand Vizir
advances against the French, and is defeated— Negociations
between Kleber and Sir Sydney Smith — Armistice signed—
M. Denon arrives at Keneh from whence he proceeds to
Kous — Ruins at that Place— Arrival at Thebes— Templet
at Karnac and Luxor , Salamieh and Esneh—Templeef
Latopolis-rJluini at Chenubis and ApottinepeHs — Remain*
at Etfu — Route to Tombuctoo— Crocodiles— Ruins at D*n+
dera— Ancient Zodia^^Tentyra^— Tombs ef the Egyptian

. Jflonarohsat Thebes— Grottos, Paintings, and Sculpture*
—Ancient Manuscript on Papyrus— Porticos of Medinet

. 46*— Statues of Memnon and Osymandias, Concerning
Mummies, and ancient Mode of Sepulture— Embarkation
Jbr Cairo— Ruins qf Antinoe — Monastery qf the Chain-j
Embarkation for France, and arrival at Frejus — Amount
of the Ottoman and French Armies— Convention signed at
El-Aiish — Desaix embarks for France — Description qf that
Genetal — Weber's secret Despatches to the Directory fall
into the Hands of the English — The Convention with Kleber

' broken by the British — Kleber attache the Grand Vizier,
and defeats^ with Thirteen Thousand Men9 the Ottoman

• Army composed of Forty Thousand Troops— Kleber returns
to Cairo, defeats the Turks9 and re-possesses himself df

' that City-~Deatk qf General Lanusse — Conditions' of the
Treaty fsr the evacuating of Egypt ~~ Assassination of

» General Kleber—Mtnou appointed Commander-in-Chief

. and Letter qf that Officer detailing the State qf the French

, Amy <m it* Embarkation for Europe*

Digitized by

Google

152 THE LCpE 0F

We shall now proceed to close Napoleon's career in
Egypt, and the departure of the French army from that
country, in the words of an officer belonging to the
French commissariat, who details those memorable
events in the following manner.

With what transports the intelligence of the fortunate
result of the battle of Aboukir was received at Cairo ;
we embraced, we congratulated each other, our joy was
unanimous and sincere. Every passion, every interest
was absorbed in the splendour of this memorable victory,
which had avenged the affront our navy had received on
that same shore.

Mustapba-Paoha, and the Turkish prisoners were sent
to Cairo. They were pledges of the prosperity of our
arms. Nothing less than their presence was necessary
to convince the incredulous Egyptians that we did not
deceive them with regard to the extent, of the loss sus-
tained by the Ottomans.

The Turks wounded at the battle of Aboukir, -who had
escaped the carnage, were sent to Patrona-Bey, who
commanded the Turkish fleet. The transport of these
prisoners established frequent communications with the
English and Turkish ships, by which means one of our
officers procured the English gazettes and those of
Frankfort up to the 10th of June. They contained the
intelligence of our reverses in Italy, and the disastrous
situation of affairs which, without doubt, confirmed Bona-
parte in his project of returning to France.
< The General-in-Chief slept at Rahmanieh on the 6th
of August, and on the 22d arrived at Cairo. On the
30th be received a letter from Admiral Gantheaume,
which announced that the English and Turkish fleets had
soiled. A journey into the Delta was immediately spoken
<>f at head-quarters. The object of Bonaparte, they
.said, in this absence, which would be. only for a few days,
.was to visit, that fertile island, and promote the re-
establishment of the canals, which had been so long
neglected.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 153

He wrote to the Divan: " To morrow I set oat to re-
pair to Menouf, from whence I shall make different ex-
cursions into the Delta, to the end that I may myself
witness the injustice which is committed, and acquire a
knowledge of the men of the country. v

" I recommend it to yon to maintain confidence among
the people : remind them frequently of my love for Mas-
suJmen, and that my purpose is to confer happiness upon
them. Acquaint them that I have two great means to
conduct men ; — persuasion and force ; with the one I gain
friends, and with the other I destroy my enemies.

" Let me hear from you as often as possible, and in-
form me of the situation of affairs.9*

Bonaparte had long been aware of the necessity of
acting promptly to insure the success of any project
He caused Denon, Monge, and Berthollet, to be in-
formed of his intent the • same evening. Preparations
for so sudden a departure could not be kept so secret as
to prevent our divining the true cause. At first it was
only in whispers and with precaution that we dared to
communicate our thoughts to each other respecting this
intended voyage, however, on the 18th August, in the
morning, we learnt that Bonaparte was no longer at
Cairo.

Whether General Dugua was in the confidence of
Bonaparte, or unwilling to persuade himself of the truth
of conjectures derived from so many circumstances, he
affected the greatest discontent, and declared that he
would punish whoever should advance that Bonaparte
was set out for France. These menaces, however, were
ineffectual, or rather produced a contrary feeling. Our
opinions, suppressed for some time, acquired a degree of .
violence which burst forth in the most abusive terms.

Bonaparte had appointed a meeting with General
Kleber and Menou, he, however, only saw the latter, to
whom he confided the command of Alexandria. On the
23d of August, Bonaparte, accompanied by the Generals

vol. 11— 20. x

Digitized jDy

Google

154 TUB UF£ OF

Berthier, Marat, Lames, and Maraont, embarked on
board the frigates La Muiron and La Carere, leaving the
following proclamation to bis army*
" Soldiers,

" The affairs of Europe recal me to France. I leave
the command of the forces to General Kleber. The
amy shall soon receive intelligence from me. It is painful
to leave soldiers to whom I am so much attached ; but it
shall not be for long. The General whom I have left
possesses both my confidence and that of the government."

On arriving on board, Bonaparte found a great many
Frenchmen in the vessel, who had availed themselves of
this opportunity, in order to quit the country, which had
proved to them so fraught with ingratitude, and, under
the command of the General, the frigate was ere long in
readiness to set sail. The breeze soon filling the can*
vas, the safety of the vessel was committed to the pilot,
when suddenly a sloop hove alongside at the imminent
risk of being run down, wherein Napoleon recognized a
leading officer in the French army, who, daring a recent
action, had bad one of his arms broken, which he still con-
tinned to wear in a sling. After having rendered the-
necessary assistance in conveying him on board, .Bona-
parte thus addressed him —

"You come, my friend, in defiance of death itself by
thus exposing your person, wounded as you are, to this
long and hazardous voyage."

" General, " replied the officer with enthusiasm, '< the
loss of life if to me of no consequence, so I can but
perish with you." *

Bonaparte, astonished at this noble devotedness to his
own person, experienced for a time that pleasing satisfac-
tion which accompanies the certainty of being beloved,
and, from that period, he became particularly attached
to the officer in question, who never after failed to expe-
rience his most marked attention.
« Among other parts of Napoleon's conduct, which have

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 165

fallen particularly under tie censure of Englishmen, is,
what has been most unjustly termed his base and cowardly
desertion of his army in Egypt. Bat why call it cow-
ardly ? — Was there any thing like cowardice in braving
the manifest danger to which he was exposed on a sea
covered with the enemy's vessels, where be was every mo-
ment in danger of falling into their hands? — and. to have
become their prisoner certainly could not be the object of
his wishes. Sorely a dispassionate view of the case
woald rather lead us to consider it as one of those daring
acts which have marked, in a distinguished manner, a
mind that soared above all petty calculations of risk to
his own person, when any object was to be pursued in
unison, with the aspiring nature of his. genius. A coward
would have waited to make the best terms he could with
the enemy for his own personal safety, and gladly have
purchased life and freedom at the expense of his honour.
Bonaparte saw that the only prospect of continuing that
career of fame, and service to his country, which he had
long successfully run, was in hazarding something, and
thai something* he resolved should be himself. It is diffi-
cult to guess how even his greatest, enemies have been
able to discover any thing cowardly in this act.

It is well known that two years before Bonaparte's ele-
vation to the Consulate, the Directory, jealous of the
national attachment to Bonaparte, were detenmined to
send bis* on the Egyptian expedition. Carnot afterwards
in plain term* accused the triumvirate of the Directory,
as they were called,, Reubel, Barras, and La Beveillere,
with having become so extremely jealous of the ascen-
dancy which Bonaparte had acquired over the minds of
the people through his military achievements, that they
had repeatedly plotted his destruction. But his unex-
pected return baffled all their scheme*.

When Bonaparte embarked, an English cutter was in
sight of the two frigates, the officer* who accompanied
him. drew the saddest presages from this circumstance,

Digitized by

Google

156 TIIE L1FE OF

and staid that it would be difficult to escape tbe vigilance
of the enemy. " True !" exclaimed Bonaparte, " bat
we shall arrive — Fortune has never abandoned as ; we
shall arrive in despite of the English/' They set sail in
the night, and Gantheaume, perfect master of his ma-
noeuvures, ranged along the coast of Africa, choosing a
- longer bat more certain route of navigation.

On the 30th of September, 1799, the two frigate1* en-
tered the gulf of Ajaccio. On the 8th of October,
being in sight of the coast of France, they perceived an
English fleet of from eight to ten sail ; Admiral Gan-
theaume was desirous immediately to tack about and
return to Corsica ; " No, no/9 said Bonaparte, " that
manoeuvre would conduct us to England, — and my will
is to arrive in France." This was the first time since he
left Egypt that he had expressed a will of his own ; and
it proved the means of their safety.

October 9th, Bonaparte disembarked at Frejus, after
a surprising voyage of forty-one days, and upon a sea co-
vered with the enemies' ships,

So much was the unexpected return of Bonaparte from
Egypt looked upon as the auspicious omen of the end of
the reign of anarchy, that when the news of his arrival
reached Marseilles the event was celebrated with a
general illumination, bonfires, and other demonstrations
of joy. Of the particular circumstances that were to
succeed it, no one pretended to form any conjecture; bat
the general sensation among all who desired to see the
return of order within, and of victory without, was to
look up to him as the only person from whom these bene-
fits were to be expected.

But an impulse of a very different nature seized the
minds of the magistracy of Toulon, who were greatly in-
fluenced by the Directory, which Napoleon had come to
overturn. It was known there that the plague bad made
considerable ravages among the army in Egypt ; and when
the report was circulated that Bonaparte had landed at

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE 157

Frejus, and proceeded immediately to Paris, without the
vessel or any of the crew having been subjected to the
usual quarantine, couriers were sent after him with orders
not to stop on the road upon any consideration till they
had overtaken him, and to bring him and his companions
back, that they might be put into quarantine. But Bo-
naparte bad got so much the start of them, and pursued
his journey with such alacrity, that he arrived at Paris
long before them ; and the memorable events which
crowded upon each other from the moment of bis arrival,
soon turned the public attention from all other objects to
fix it on them alone.

We learned at Cairo, at one afid the same time, the
arrival of the General-in-Chief at Alexandria, his em-
barkation, and his departure. This news plunged us all
into consternation. It had become habitual to each of us,
to confide in that chief, the favourite of fortune, and
commander as it were of our destinies. Our confidence
in him was such, that we believed ourselves destined to
die in Africa, when we learned that he had sailed from
Alexandria ; and this was the first impression which the
departure of the General-in-Chief made upon the
army.

Such is the progress of the human mind, that after
having exhausted all the most unfavourable conjectures,
all the probabilities of an afflicting futurity, it eagerly
attaches itself to the smallest ray of hope, thoogh often
deceitful ; thus, the idea of a salutary change in France,
and the still more flattering hope of an approaching and
glorious peace, insensibly calmed the agitation of our
minds. Bonaparte had promised us speedy succours, we
depended upon them, by calculating upon the importance
which he ought to attach to the preservation of his con-
quest. The name of Kleber, however, succeeded in
tranquillising the most alarmed ; he possessed both the
esteem and the confidence of the troops, and he deserved
them.

gitized by G00gle

158 THE LIFE OF

Kleber was almost six feet high, of prodigious strength
and a stern countenance. His look was fiery and proud,
his appearance majestic, and bis manners cold. His
genius and courage were equal to his loyalty and love of
discipline. He was uncommonly plain and soldier-tike in
hia dress. His conversation announced a well-informed
man, profound and perfectly conversant with the human
heart. From some remarks of his on Bonaparte, it would
appear that he judged differently of that General from
many others; Kleber, indeed, was little susceptible of
enthusiasm. It appeared that the campaign in Syria had
not answered the idea which he had formed of the mili-
tary talents of Bonaparte. He did justice to his extra-
ordinary activity ; but he blamed that impatience which
never respects the fatigues and life of the soldier. I
well remember the following words of his on that subject
" To go is nothing, we should be able to return. To
take is nothing, we should know how to keep." Kleber
possessed the qualities of a great General ; and what is
very rare, he knew how to obey like a soldier.

The defeat of the Ottomans, at Aboukir, ensured our
tranquillity for some time,, and increased our preponde-
rance in Egypt. Murad-Bey, not having been able to
second the descent of the Turks, once more re-ascended
the Nile, and removed from the city so dear to his remem-
brance* He returned iota those distant provinces which
Desaix had been obliged to abandon, where he esta-
blished himself, in the expectation of a more favourable
conjuncture, which was not long in offering itself.

Kleber, on his part, having no more enemies to repulse
in. the interior, occupied himself with all tha,t could con-
tribute to the well-being of the army. He extended his
cares to different branches of the administration, parti-
cularly to the hospitals. . He proceeded actively in the
completion of the clothing of the troops, and he assigned
them cantonments which were contiguous to. each other,
where they reposed in expectation of new combats. (

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. |$9

He likewise ordered that, in future, the inhabitants of
the country should render him those honours which they
had decreed to the Beys and the Pachas* Bonaparte
did not display any great retinae when in Cairo, unless
on occasions of ceremony. He was usually accompanied
by his aides-de-camp, and some guides. To conform
to the usages of the country he had taken only two Egyp-
tian domestics, who bore jerides or pikes ; they ran by
the side of bis horse, one holding the bridle, and the other
the stirrup when he dismounted.

Kleber caused himself to be preceded, in the manner
of the country, by two rows of staffsmen, who, striking the
ground with their long staves, cried before him in
Arabic; " Behold the General-in-Chief, Mussulmen, pros*
trate yourselves ;" I believe this was the formula. The
inhabitants made way for him ; those on asses or mules
dismounted, and all bowing themselves and crossing
their arms on their breasts, made the customary reverence.
He was frequently accompanied by the Aga of the Ja-
nissaries, the Cheiks of the city, or the members of the
Divan. The Turks reverenced him because they are
fond of an imposing stature, and I remember that they
fonnd Bonaparte deficient in height. They said that
Kleber was a real Sultan, and the more he required their
homage, the readier were they to accord him their admi-
ration.

After the departure of General Marat with Bonaparte,
General Davoust took the command of the cavalry, which
occupied Bulak. I there resided in a house which was
absolutely washed by the Nile from its foundation, and,
on raising myself a little in my bed, I was able on
awaking to contemplate the majestic pyramids of Giaeh.

This tranquillity, on which we had reckoned so much,
was soon disturbed by the intelligence that new parties
were forming in Syria. This, however, in great part
originated with the Arabs, and at least appeared much
exaggerated, if not entirely without foundation.

Digitized by

Google

100 THE LIFE OF

The emperor Selim, roused by the English and the
Russians to attend to his interests, at last determined to
chase the French from his dominions. Whilst the Turk-
ish fleet, under' the orders of Patrona-Bey, debarked at
A.boukir, the grand Vizir Toussef-Pacha advanced from
the east with a considerable army, composed of a mass of
individuals, who had flocked with many Pachas from the
interior of Asia, and from Mount Caucasus.

Patrona-Bey, after being a useless witness of the dis-
aster of his army, retired to the island of Cyprus, where
he was massacred in a revolt of the Janissaries, October
18th. Seid Ali-Bey, who had arrived in the mean time
from Constantinople with the second maritime expedi-
tion, assumed the command in chief. As soon as he had,
by his firmness, suppressed the mutiny and re-established
order in the army, he concerted with Sir Sidney Smith
an attack upon Damietta, with the purpose of attracting
the attention of Kleber to that point, and of enabling the
Grand Vizir to advance with his army by the desert. In
effect, the squadrons of Ali-Bey and Sir Sidney Smith
appeared before Damietta at the end of October, bat
the slowness with which the Turks proceeded in their
preparations enabled General Verdier to put himself in
a state to give the enemy a good reception, and to re-
unite all his disposable forces. Kleber, who easily di-
vined their purpose, was not much disturbed on hearing
of this second attack. He confined himself simply to
despatching a body of troops upon Salehieh, to support
Cathieh and observe the route of the desert.

On the first of November, the Turks, protected by the
fire of the gun-boats, effected their descent near Dami-
etta. Our troops immediately charged them with the
bayonet. The enemy with no less resolution waited till
they were within ten paces, and then, with dreadful cries,
rushed upon them sword in hand, and our first line was
obliged precipitately to give way. The victory seemed
inclined in favour of the enemy, when Osman Aga, chief

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPAItTfe. }gj

of the Janissaries, abandoning himself to bis itn(tefct<ttky,
and causing the corps he commanded to quit the
post which had been assigned to them, rushed onwards
in order to tarn our troops* who advanced with- firmness
to encounter the Janissaries* when the cavalry, by a bold
movement, threw themselves upon the rear of the Turks*
who sought safety in immediate flight. The enemy lost
a great number of men, and their artillery dared not play
upon a confused crowd, equally composed of their own
troops and those of the Ftonch* The sea itself did not
arrest the flight of these faithful allies of the Epgjisb;
they threw themselves into the waves to attain the barks,
which were in attendance for them, and the shore was
covered with spoils and with turbans. It may be re-
marked that the Turks owe their defeat, at the battle of
Damietta, equally with that of Aboukir* to their impar
tienoe. General Verdier took nearly eleven hundred
prisoners, for whose exchange he treated with Sir Sidney
Smith. The latter, after this unsuccessful attempt,
marched to rejoin the Grand Vizir in Syria, who, he
found, had made very little progress in his march*

At the end of October, the army of the Grand Signer,
4ixfy thousand Strong, took a position, at the camp formed
under Jaffa ; and' it was at . this epoch* that the corre-
spondence commenced between Kleber and Sir Sidney
Smith, plenipotentiary of the British government at the
Sublime Port.

Kleber, determined, to negociato, and dtieming the
English only auxiliaries of that power, .addressed him*
self to the Grand Viair. Independently of his desire
to obtain an honourable retreat, he hoped to derive some
advantage from the time which would be occupied by the
conferences. ' He might, by prolonging the propositions,
abate the preparatives of the Grand Vizir, and in the
meantime perhaps profit by. the arrival of reinforcement*
Whichr had been promised. The Grand Vizir, however,
wa*Bot deceived, .nor ceased to accelerate the meapa mi

Digitized by

Google

|02 THE LIFE OF

traaaa+rtto etobl* Ihti: grind anfty to tovtfto the

Sivfiidfcejf Smith*** wpce**i«g the oyertlue* of Klefee*
explained to. him,, that EefeJaiMi was not a» anxUroy a*
hfa appedrpd tobefctfre, bttrathfir a pri&oipel in Uw intet
te*te to question* a*d bo deolaftd* that nrtftrithetwdief
the* onhnii wMch sfabalated; b**w«eft the Fori find tfc»
•abinet of St. Jacttfafo ifteftse: the Qttoroa* count should
grant a* fired parage to >tb* ifoeaah army* to e*ao*e*e Sgyy**
each afts aaMogoaaeilflcoqld, not be aooouplisbddibul with
tbe cetfentaf EogkNd. H*<Je*re*«tfr aff ra^thafthis<ge«
yernideaiJiad ioirealttpfw altera* U*e i*,inlerfrmig with
etoaefcedd steteatf aflaiattthaoj to gwtewHe the integrity of
the Turkish Ampins, tbe Uft* e*ent» in India harag
ptaaed the pdeseatibiib oftth* sobjetot* of Great Britain*
wt of the. reafcfat of afb iiiaulVe?*n though the French
iiutrid tetania in Egypt. Ha tb^> afecladed, . by teyin*
dowa a* a priotipley the* peade ©oaid not be ratified
mod Ifcypt sbonUibttreatated to iU. legitimate sovertrigto
and that to tteat far (lib, evacuation/ of the ptovfaoe*
would be the aaoat libafy openm of acedmpliahifi£ that
giwat *oab#. .

Ktebeiv n»betirfepl»v eipiainM the «uWer which hadV
determined: Htm enooloai^tely. to addJeeas the Grand
Viaic, obterbing,. itotteve*;- that in. hit relation* uritb
Mabm^d ftanbdy, Effielicty, be had sdieftttfd the inteWea*
tiou of Great Britain, folly persuaded that .inch interife-*
rattce wnmkhprove an; important step towards a defaaive
paade* In 6m, aAevibatirig draw* ahakUant piotatte df
ta* state of his itnny^ he teAted part of lhaobrtrirtofe*
wMnh Sfc<SiditeJf Smritb had made bu tb«*fet* of affaire
hk Eo|*dp£, «od» of thojobauge which a.iiev. wbe in Italy;
woaiU. produce in the situation of ; Franed- Kleber taey-
el*dad, bakifoi^Uig.hiAdalhe.waaAbiiDiioaddi^aM.^
OfandrViiar: to engage? him to appoint two ptenipaaen-
tieriestaknaetttheitwaconm^^

a* iapr aseai th* QoaeniUn-oatef of tbe Prerieh. anqr.
He, monnorer, assured him, that he had net the' slightest

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON [BONAPARTE. 143

to the conference* bf ingleld *ren «n boan} Abe
ship of. 6k Sidney Sinith. The ttrtwttrioaers . cheee*
/by debar wave General Beatifs <and &L* PDussealgu*,
administrator-general of finances. TW oeatanosloce, in
his answer, dated aea^cpwrtere at Jaffa, a*noenced,*at,
after an interview with his Highness in presence ;of the
Russian agents* it Jiad boea decide*! »by comma* -consent,
thai tnecanfcnrenceB sfcooM take pi ape on board his skip,
and for that pcirpase, t>e, sbe«U jepair without ken <of
-time before 4%BBadria> ari*in)e* *© mceive oA boacd ike
pe/adns appointed to fcreat for fthe Hranohaiiay.

After abane aVday; p^raiijwW by the eto&ur Datable state
«f the weatker, tile two plmipdaaniiarfas arrived on board
4ke Tajptr. . The Mat prdpoaatien* (the dbjeet of which
i«a* to neutralise the elliaawe of lh»*hree united powers
in cane of the evacuation of Eg^pt, \wane . regarded by
Sir Sidney as. inooii^attbla trill* the aaWeta with
which he was invested ; he stated, however, that he
shonidnotbe backward in consenting to any modifications
or arrangements which might lead to a definitive, agree-
ment, and that none of his dispositions wpqld be contrary
to tke treaty of th* 6th of January, 1796. The cannier-
project presented by bun contained four principal articles,
«f which the three first establttied, that the* Ottoman
Port, far from being (he aggressor, was not ambitions of
aggrandisement, or had ariy desire to continue th* war,
and wonld have no pretensions to renew it, after its pos-
sessions should be restored; that the Freoeh pteoi^CK
tontiaries having no' mission to treat fdr peace, that im-
portant result, to which the oetnpatio* at Egypt watfthe
only obstacle, should be discussed by ministers appointed
for tbe pwrpesa* The fourth artial**ok««wledged> that the
SWoch trmy, nhhougfi menaced on ev^ry side, wa& riot
beaten : that its bravery, its attitude, and its reputation
sufficiently evinced that it still pd«seft*ed poWeHW iheans
of resistance f and that it was oot m the ease of m army
•bliged to oqpitolate; batshetfM rtrtainitt^s trod bag-

Digitized by

1

Google

J #4 *HE XfFEOF. *

gfcge* The tame artidfe provided for the ineta* of trans- -
pert of the French army to the ports of France, subject
to the sole, condition of a quarantine, demanded for tbte
safety of Europe.

Whilst these negotiations were proceeding to a termi-
nation, the Grand Vizir had advanced to Gaza, for tbe
purpose of laying siege to El-Arish, and Kleber had pro-
ceeded with his army upon Salebieh, to observe the move-
ments of tbe enemy, and support by bis presence the
representations of his commissioners in reply to the coun-
ter-project of Sir Sidney Smith. He Wished to obtain, as
a compensation for evacuating Egypt, the restitution of
tbe Venetian islands, Corfu, Zante, and Cephalonia ; the
guarantee of the possession of Malta to France ; tbte
liberty of transporting his army to any point he inight
select ; and, finally, the dissolution of tbe triple vttianee
between the Port, England, «nd Russia.*

* M. Denon's very entertaining and instructive narrative, which we
shall now close, thus continues :

It is not until the paroxysm is past, that the sick man discovess how
much his strength is exhausted by the fever. While the enemy con-
tinued to fire on us with our own powder and balls, we had not calcu-
lated the quantity it was requisite to expend, in order to exhaust or
recover what had been captured. Whereas now being more tranquil
we found our loss In killed and wounded, to amount to one hundred
andfiftr men*

On the ljth of April we marched towards Keneh, to ascertain whe-
ther there were any Meccans in that quarter, and what was become
• of General Desajx.

Keneh has succeeded Kous, as Kpus had succeeded Coptos. lit
situation' has this advantage, that it is immediately at the entrance of
the desert, and on the bank of the Nile.

Its commerce being confined to the passage of the pilgrims, Was
very inconsiderable, unless at the time when the great caravan was
on the road. Ft is here the pilgrims of the Oasis in Lybia, together
with those of Upper Egypt, and a few Nubians, take in their supplies,
providing not only what is necessary for the passage across the desert
toQosseir, but also for tbe journey to Gidda, Medina, and Mecca;
as. well as for their return thence. / ' ^

- General Beliard would have pursued the terrified Mamelukes and
vanquished Meccans, but could hot not take the field without amhiti-
jiiliofi. We were under the necessity, daring our stay at Kenefe. *t

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. \Q$

In Ihe ntaftntime the plenipotentiaries had signed an
wrmistioe wbieb was approved by Kleber. The unfavour*

fortfyiog the house where we lodged, and which became die head-
quarters.

We quitted Keneh daring the night, with an intention of surprising
the enemy, and, in order to deceive their advanced posts, marched
along the desert. When we reached Kous, where they bad been
encamped, they were no longer to be found, having set out thence
at the same time that we had left Keneh.

The hopes of seeing Thebes, in the direction of which we were to
march, made me joyfully turn my back once more on Cairo. It was
my destiny to attach myself to those who were to proceed the greatest
distance up the country ; and I accordingly followed General Be^
hard. I was soon after to join once more General Desaix ; and on
the evening previous to parting we formed a thousand projects for the
future. Our adieus, however, were of a melancholy cast ; and on
this occasion our separation was to me more distressing than ever.
Could I imagine that, young as he was, it would fall to his lot to leave
me in the career which I had to run, and that I should remain to re-
gret his loss ? We separated, and I have never seen him since. Our
detachment had proceeded a league, when the brave Latoumerie
gallopped up to me: he came back to bid me adieu. We had' a
great affection for each other ; and, moved as I was by this mark of
- his tenderness, I was, notwithstanding, struck by his emotion. Wc
did not embrace each other without shedding a few tears. The pro*
fession of arms may harden those whose temperament is cold and fri-
gid : but its horrors do not weaken the sensibility of tender souls.

In passing through Kous, I found in the middle of the square the
summit of a large and well-proportioned gate, sunk into the ground
to the cornice. This single fragment, which mnst have belonged to
a great edifice, proves that Kous was built on the site of Apollino*
polis Parva. The bulk and magnitude of this ruin presents a contrast
with all the objects that surround it, which speaks more on the sub*
ject of Egyptian architecture than twenty pages of encomium, as this
fragment alone appears larger thin all the rest of the city.

In the village of Efmecieh, distant half a league from Kous, f
found the bases cf several edifices of Egyptian free-stbne, on which
were hieroglyphics. I Was in doubt whether these had belonged to
a small city, which tradition has not handed down to us, or whether
they anciently constituted an isolated temple. Their ruins were too
much watted to enable me to give an idea of them by a drawing, or,
to make a plan of any of the parts. On proceeding half a league
further, I saw more distinctly, on a small eminence, the base of a
temple absolutely remote from any other ruins whatever. I could
perceive three layers of large stones, which had formed a kind of pe-
destal extending to the pavement of the temple, in the front of which
was a portico of six columns connected at the lower extremity' of
their shafts. Quitting this monument, we arrived, after an- hour's
march, at Nagadf, a large and dull village, situated at the entrance of
tnedesertr

oqIc

|6K THE X1FE OF

able strta of the weatbeir, bonder, fwevmhmi assy vcase]
despatched to Jafa from «ppaoach,irjg that coast to

We rntooMcled to an enclosure* latterly employed mi burial aground,
and^ after having taken up our lodging, employed ourselves in driving
away the bats, and throwing dqwn the tomb-stones, A fortress, a de-
ieri, and tombs I We weie sttvounjaed<by me laosjt dismal objects
in the world? and i£ wjtb a. view to banish the melancholy impros-
stan with which mete sceomb'adtf nap ire*i ui, we occasionally went out
at night to breathe for a few.Aonuftits * purer a'w, our respiration wat
the only sound that disturbed the tranquility of the void by which
m were terrified.

On the second of April* General Dessix aent for three hundred
men and fifty of our cavalry, to do duty at ^irambnnr, and relieve the
taoope which were to proceed too strengthen the pott of Keneh. On
the tame day we learned that the Mamelukes and Mcccans bad
quitted Kittnh and that, by (he route they bad taken, their . tnten*
tton was to pass out of the desert, in a northern direction, at Xeneh
or Samasa. The best .dispositions were made on that aide; either
toxjulige them to kee|> within, the boundaries of the desert, or to sm>
pate thcsa on.thctr attempting to ouit it. The scouting party belong*
mg to the detachment with which General Desaix was proceeding
to Keneh, fell in with the rear-guard of the Mamelukes, and charged.
Two hundred infantry and a single fieJdVpiece would have converted
this skirmish into a victory of great importance to us,, at a moment
when the beys and kiachefe, dispersed and deserted by a part of their
Mamelukes, were greatly distressed.

Towards noon we reached the territory of Thebes : and, at the dis-
tance of three quarters of a league from' the Nile, saw the ruins of a
large temple, not .noticed by aoy traveller, and which may give an .
idea *£ the immensity of that city, since, if we suppose mat it was
the last edifice on the eastern side* k. is more j than two leagues and an
half distant from Mediae*- Abu, where the most western temple is
situated. This was the third time of my passing through Thebes;
and only passing it At length we arrived :at Karnan, a village built
on a small part of the site of a single temple, the circumference of
which iWosM require half an hour to walk round, Herodotus has
given a. correct idea of its grandeur and magnificence, Diodorus and
Strabo, who examined it in its ruinous state, appear to have de»
scribed it nearly in its present condition; and all the travellers by
whom then have been copied, have. mistaken a great extent of masses
fm beauty, and, having allowed, tiiemsebres .rather to be taken by
surprise than charmed on ao inspecMsa of the Jargest ruin in the
world, have rashly preferced this temple to those m Apollioopohs,
Bwo, and Tentyra, and the simple jtortico at. Esneh. k is pro-
basjle that the temples of Karnac/and Luswr were built in the time of
SsmWtrfa* when the flouripkmg coiidUj« of the figyjp^ant gave birth
mtsjnsamamongthem^vmal.whenihlKwearis.w^ .perhaps dwpbycd
tame world for the tint time. The vanity of erecting colossal edfr
ic»amdthesVw.eonthki^tipaof opulence ; and it was not as yet
known, that a perfection in the arts bestows on their pnxjttetises a

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. JtfJ

mtt tteifatriUp^Ace to fbe Grand Vifcir, who left Gtai
6n tfct/lMfc of October, and arrived is perm atEMpiafc

pandeuv which Is independent of their magnitudes. It has,i in after
ages, been ascertained that the small rotunda of Vicensa is as perfect,
an edifice as that of Sti Peter at Rome. It is therefore the sumptu-
ousness alone of the Egyptians which is to be seen at Karnac* where,
not only quarries* but mountains are piled together, and hewn out.
into massive proportions, the traits of which areas feebly executed* a*>
the parts are: clbmsUy connected ; and these masses are loaded with'
uhcmnh ba*-<re4i*M and tasteless hieroglyphics* by which the art of
soolpfure tedisffracetL The only objects there which are sublime,
both in regard to their dimensions, and the skill which their work*
marahip displays, are the obelisks, and a few of the ornaments* of
the outer gates, the style of which are admirably chaste. If in the
other parts of this edifice the Egyptians appear to .us to be giants, h*
these latter productions they .are geniuses. . I am accordingly pen-
suaded that these Sublime embellishments were added in an after age'
to the colossal monuments of Karnac. It must however be granted/
that thetempleisnohle and grand. The art of contriving beautiful plans
has, in architecture, invariably preceded - that of the fine execution'
of the details* and\ constantly survived1 for several centuries the
' corruption of the latter, as is proved by a comparison of the monu>
ntentatif Thebes, with those of £soehand Teiityra,. as well as by
that: of the edifices of the reign of Dioelesian with those of the time
of Augustus.

To the known descriptions of the great edifice of Karnac, should
be added* that it was but a temple, and could be nothing else. AM
that exista at psesenf; in, a somewhat entire state relates to a very
small sanctuary, winch had been disposed in this way to inspire a due
degree of veneration^ and to become a kind of tabernacle* Onber.
hofdihg the vast exteut of these ruins the imagination is wearied with-
the idea of describing thenu ..Of the hundred columns of the por-1
tiee done of tMis temple, thesmallest are seven feet and an half in
diameter, and the largest twelve* The space occupied by its circiim*
vallatjon contains: lakes And mountains. In short, to be enabled to>
form a competent idee of .so much mcgninoence, it is necessary that
the reader, should fancywbat is: before him to be a dream, as he who*
views the oMechi themselves rubs his eyes to know whether he is
awake. WithJespect to the present state of this edifice, it is, how*
ever, necessary at the same time to observe, that a great part of the
edfect is lost by) its/ very degraded stale. The sphinxes have been*
wantonly mutilated,, with a few exceptions* which barbarism, wearied-
with destroying, has spared, end on examining which it is easy te<
distinguish that some of them had a woman's head, others that of a*
Hon, aram, aibull^Ac. The avenue which leads from Karnac- to*
Laixor was of this latter description^; and this space, which is nearly
ball a league m extent, contains a constant succession of these cm-
nerical figures to the right and Jefi> together with tmgmentatrf stone'*
walla> of small columns, and< of statues* This point lying-in the-
' ' ' of theJcJe/i the past which swathe snest'advaatasjeousrjn

Digitized by

Google

|08 THE LIFE OF *

to hasten the redaction of that place. This unfortunate
delay occasioned the massacre of part of the garrison, of

placed, there is reason to suppose that the palace of Ihe grandees or
kings was situated there.

Luxor, the finest village in these environs,' is also built on the site
of the ruins of a temple, not so large as that of Karnac, but in a
better state of preservation, the masses not having asyet fallen through,
time, and by the pressure of their own weight. Tne most colossal
parts consist of fourteen columns of nearly eleven feet in diameter,
and of two statues in granite, at the outer gate, buried up to the mid*,
die of the arms, and having in front of them the two largest and best
preserved obelisks known.

A peculiarity belonging to the temple of Luxor is, that a quay,
provided with an epaulment, secured the eastern part, which was
near the river, from the damages that the inundations might other-
wise have occasioned* The epaulment, which since its original struc-
ture has been repaired and augmented in brick work, proves that the
river has not changed its bed ; and its preservation is an evidence that
she Nile has never been banked\by other quays, since no traces of
similar constructions are elsewhere to be met with.

We set out at two o'clock* and reached Salamieh atthe expiration
of thirteen hours, as if this space of time had been a regulation for
our day's march, on all the occasions when we were to pass through
Thebes. On the following day we again entered the desert, and
arrived before Esneh pretty early. When setting out the day after,
we found a small temple, in a very ruinous state, but notwithstanding,
very picturesque and singular in its plan, as well as in several of its
parts. It consists of a portico with tour columns in front* two pilas-
ters, and two columns in the depth> with a sanctuary .in the middle,
and two lateral apartments., one of which* on the right hand, is
scarcely to be traced. Within the portico is a door cut out of the
lateral wall to the right, which must have been the entrance of a
small sanctuary in which the offerings were made. Another singu"-
larity in the elevation of this edifice is, that the capitals of the two
columns in the middle of the portico are in relief at their summit/
white those of the columns at each extremity are guttered. This
building is in a more ruinous state than any other which I have seen
in Egypt ; and the decay has undoubtedly arisen from the nature Of
the tree-ston e with which it was built. The parts that have been
added are in better preservation than in the other temples, a .cir-
cumstance which is to be ascribed to the superior quality of the bricks
that were employed. The circumvallation of the temple, within
which were contained the lodgings of the priests, may be pretty dis-
tinctly made out ; and the whole of this enclosure is somewhat ele-
vated above the very small city of Contra- LatopoHs, which was built
round the compass of this monument. It would appear to have been
the practice that all the great cities on the bank of the Nile should
have a small city or port on the opposite bank, which was probably?

eaced there for the convenience or commerce. It was scarcely day-
eak when the troops were marched off; and f regretted that I had

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. Ififl

thai fort After a siege of seventy days, the French
troops consented to capitulate, and produced upon their

not a better opportunity to study the details of the plan of this tem-
ple, and of the buildings which had been subsequently added.

We proceeded in the direction of the mountains. In this • latitude
the part of Egypt which lies to the right is so narrow, that the chain
extends, in two instances, to the Nile, insomuch, that our artillery
was conveyed over with difficulty, and the greater part of the day
lost. On the other side of these passages the rocks become of a
different nature ; we found several quarries of free-stone, which no
doubt supplied materials for the city and temples of Chenubis, where
we arrived an hour after. Within a quarter of a league of this city
are two tombs hewn out of the rock, and a small sanctuary sur-
rounded by a gallery, having a portico in front. This monument is
unconnected with any other, and is situated in the same way as the
catholic chapels that are to be met with in Europe. I next pro-
ceeded to view the temple or temples of Chenubis, the ruins of
which, as well as those of the city itself, are in so disjointed a state,
and so varied in their proportions, that it is very difficult to form any
correct idea of their plan. The most considerable and most elevated
parts consist of six columns, the capitals of three of which belly out,
while those of three others, which are parallel to them, are guttered,
and united by an entablature, as far as 1 could distinguish in passing
in a bark. On a nearer view I could perceive, that they had not
been built at: the same time, and that tfiose which have guttered
capitals have never been finished, and were added as a gallery to the
others. In the front of this fragment of ruins, to the south, are the
bases of a portico, which also appears not to have been finished : and
in the same direction is a block of granite that seems to have be-
longed to a colossal statue. In an eastern direction I met with a
basin of water, the circumference of which is lined and decorated
by a gallery formed of columns. In the western part of the city the
gate of a sanctuary presents itself, together with two very minute
fragments, of the nature of which I could not satisfy myself. In the
front is a lining in the form of a quay on the Nile. Among these
architectural ruins are several of sculpture, among others a
group of two. figures, coupled together, three feet in height, the
heads of which have been broken off. What is most noticeable at
Chenubis is an enclosure, the walls of which are built of unbaked
bricks, and are of a conical shape, being at their base upwards of
twenty-seven feet thick. This extraordinary work, of which his-
tory makes no mention, is in many parts in an entire state. I ap-
prehended, at first sight, that it was of Arabic construction ; but as
there are no ruins or traces of Arabic edifices on the site of Chenu-
bis, we may presume that it is a work of high antiquity, and in this
case there is no occasion to construct fortifications of any other
description in Egypt, with the exceptions of the jambs and em bra- *
sures, together with such other parts as are exposed to friction. In
this iustance all the great masses have completely resisted the ravages
of time, and may still be employed in any defensive measures.

vol. ii.— 20 z

Digitized by LjOOQIC

170 ™E LIFE OF

ramparts the English Major Douglas, for the purpose of
entering into a treaty. The Turks took advantage of this

On the following day, after having marched during an hour, we
found lying on the ground the remains of two temples, the plans of
which could not be traced. These ruins seemed to be deposited
there merely to point out the site of the city of Juno Lucina, which
the infallible d'Anville has laid down in this latitude.

We at length reached, by the desert, the pass of Redfci, which is a
fourth opening from the Kittah. It has never been frequented by the
merchants, and was fatal to the Mamelukes, almost the whole of
whom, by taking this road, lost their horses, together with a part of
their camels, a considerable number of their attendants, and twenty-
six women, out of twenty-eight, whom the Bey had taken with hhn.

We encamped near the river, where we took up our residence
among tombs, and in the vicinity of two withered shrubs of acacia.
All those who could be spared were ordered to proceed to Etfu ; and
I accompanied this party, in the hope of viewing at my leisure the
sublime temple of Apollinopolis, the most beautiful of all Egypt,
and, next to those of Thebes, the largest. Being built at a period
when the arts and sciences had acquired all their splendour, the work-
manship of every part is equally beautiful, the hieroglyphics are ad*
mirably executed, the figures more varied, and the architecture
of a higher order than the Theban edifices, the building of which
must be referred to an earlier age.

This superb edifice is seated on a rising ground, so as to overlook
not only its immediate vicinity, but the whole valley, and at 'the foot
of this greater temple, but on a considerably lower level, ii a smaller
one, at present almost buried : the only part still visible is in a hollow
where may be seen a little portico of two columns, and as many pi-
lasters, a peristyle, and the sanctuary of the temple, enclosed within a
pilastered gallery. A single column, with its capital rising from the
ruins, to the height of forty feet above the portico, and the angle of
a wall a hundred feet beyond, show . that there formerly existed a
court in front of the temple. It is remarkable of this monument, not-
withstanding the skill displayed in its construction, that the gates are
not exactly in the middle of the sides. It seems to have been dedi-
cated to the evil genius, for the figure of Typon is seen in Telief on
the four sides of the plinth, which surmounts each of the capitals.
The whole frieze, and all the paintings within, appear descriptive of
Isis defending herself against the attacks of this monster.

General Beiiard arrived during the second day, and we -set forward
the next morning. At a short distance from Etfu, I found, by the
water-aide, the remains of a quay, near the entrance of a large canal :
no other ruin accompanies this fragment, but from the appearance of
a double flight of steps down this mound to the river, it is obvious
that it was not constructed. solely for the purpose of resisting the cur-
rent, but was probably a wharf for some town or village, now ruined
and forgotten. We again passed by the ruins of flieraconpoUs, of
which X have already spoken, and spent the evening four leagues from
Etfu. At one in the morning our march was recommcncedi and on

Digitized by LjOOQIC

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 171

suspension of arm to rash with impetuosity upon the too
confideot garrison ; when they massacred three hundred

the 23d of March we arrived at Esneh, worn out with fatigue. I had
flattered myself with the hope of enjoyine here a few days of repose,
but was much disappointed to find that the troops from Mecca, in
conjunction with some Mamelukes, were on their march from Girgeh.
An entire night was spent in passing the river ; and when our march
began, the sun was risen, and very oppressive ; and on the following
day, after marching a few hours, I came, for the fourth time, in sight
of the majestic ruins of Thebes.

We stopped *at Karnac, where the fragments in the highest preser-
vation are the following: A hero, perhaps a Pharaoh, Memnon,
Osymandyas, or Sesostris, is seen combating alone from a car in pur-
suit of people at a distance, with beards, and clothed in long tunics ;
he forces them into a marsh, and obliges the rest to take shelter in a
fortress. In one fragment he overthrows their chief, already wounded
by an arrow. In a second compartment he returns, bringing back the
captives. In a third, he presents them fettered to the three divini-
ties, by whose protection he has obtained the victory : for it is to be
. observed, that m all the above actions his arms are always accompa-
nied and guarded by one or two emblematical hawks. The divinity
to whom he presents the fruit of his conquest is that of Abundance,
under the figure of Priapus, holding a flail in his right hand, a god to
whom the temple of Karnac, the largest in Thebes, and probably
one of the greatest and oldest that was ever constructed, is dedicated.
From the very sanctuary to the outer walls of the building this divi-
nity is represented by his least equivocal characteristic. The day was
advancing, and we had not yet taken any refreshment. While we
were thus employed, the sun gained so far upon us, that we resolved
to pass the night at Karnac. limmediately returned to my interest-
ing task, and surveyed the ruins.

I had not time to measure the extent of ground occupied by these
buildings, but I found repeatedly that twenty-five minutes were re-
quired to encompass them on full trot. The passage through the cir-
cumvallation, or exterior wall, was by six gates that yet remain, three
of which were preceded by avenues of Sphinxes : within the circuit
was contained not only the great temple, but three others entirely.
distinct from it, having each its own gates, porticoes, courts, ave-
nues, and boundary wall — What was their use ? Were they temples
or palaces? Were their sovereigns lodged in "the porticoes of the
temples, or were their palaces similar in construction to the sacred
edifices? Their accommodations, at least in these out-skrits of the
temples, were not to be envied. Large courts with open galleries,
and porticoes formed by narrow intercolumniations, could not be very
pleasant to live in: the few chambers that there are, of small dimen-
sions, destitute of air and light, and covered with allegories, were
but little calculated to attract the eye or please the imagination.
Another objection is, that some of these dark, chambers contained
little tabernacles, in Which, no doubt, were enclosed either the figure

Digitized by

Google

172 THE LIFE OF

men, in despite of all the efforts made by their chiefs and
the English officers to prevent such frightful butchery,

of the divinity, or the particular animal emblematical of it, or the
sacred treasure ; and to any of these none but the priests would be
admitted. Probably, therefore, the vast circuit of" these buildings
were occupied by numerous colleges of priests, the depositaries of
the science, the power, and the influence of the country.

In traversing the building, I found myself at the south-western ex-
tremity of the circumvallation, where the other smaller temples are
situated. I entered one of them, and was struck with anew sensation of
astonishment. Behind two buttresses is an open portico of twenty-eigjit
columns,, ungraceful in its proportions, but rendered imposing by its
severity of style : so true is it in architecture, that where the lines are
long, few, and uninterrupted, the effect is always grand and striking. At
the end of this first portico is a large open door, leading to a second
colonnade of eight pillars in two rows, still more grave in their pro-
portions, and whose character is rendered more impressive by tneir
awful depth of shade, beyond this is a long narrow passage, succeeded
by two others, each darker than the preceding, and at the extremity
of all is a subterranean sanctuary, which appears to the imagination as
the asylum of terror, the temple of the Eumenidx. The whole of this
monument is separated from the rest by a boundary wall.

The heat was so intense, that my feet were scorched through my
shoes, and I was unable to sit down for the purpose of drawing, till I
had placed my servant between the sun and myself, in order to inter-
cept the rays, and procure for me a little shelter, the very stones were
become so hot, that wishing to collect some cornelian agates, which
are found in great abundance in the out-skirts of the town, I was
obliged to lay each hastily }n my handkerchief, as if it was a hot coal.
Harassed and fatigued, t betook myself to a small Arabian tomb,
which was to serve for our nipht's lodging, and which appeared to
me a delicious boudoir, till I was told, that in our former march
through this place, a French soldier, who had loitered behind the co-
lumn, was stabbed in this verv spot: the marks of the assassination
being yet visible upon the walls filled me with horror; nevertheless I
lay down, slept, and so weary was I, that I could even have reposed
on the very carcass of that ill-fated victim.

We departed on the morrow before day-light. At day-break I
found myself sufficiently near Guedime to see the ruin there, consist-
ing of four columns, still surmounted by three massy stones of the
entablature, in front of which are visible the foundations of two but-
tresses, at present a shapeless mass of fragments. These are the only
remnants of a monument, whose chief merit at present- is to serve as
a fixed point from which to compute the vast extent of the Theban
monuments. At noon we reached Kous, where we were informed that
the troops sent against us from Mecca had been routed by all our de-
tachments, and intercepted at Tata by our cavalry, who, to secure
the tranquillity of the country, had put them all to the sword.

We rested a few days at Rous, where I contemplated a gate, the
only remnant that is left of the ancient Apollinopolis Patva. This.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 173

which the Turks excused by reminding, them. of the hor-
rible death of the prisoners at Jaffa. This new disaster,

single fragment appears larger than all the rest of the town, and offers
a striking picture of the duration that characterises the Egyptian ar-
chitecture. The other parts of the edifice are doubtless buried under
the mountain of rubbish that is occupied by the modern town. The
inscription itself was posterior to the monument, and afforded a curi-
ous example of skilful flattery in a prefect of Upper Egypt, at the
time of the Ptolemies, who, on account of some repairs, twenty or
thirty centuries after the first building of the temple," ventured to
dedicate it to his masters, to inscribe the gate with their names, and
thus transmit them to posterity;

I found in the fields near the lower part of the town, a fragment of
a tabernacle, or single-stone temple, which, after having been broken*
had served for the drinking-trough to a cistern ; one of its window-
frames, still remaining entire, bore an hieroglyphical inscription, admi-
rably executed, and in a perfect state of preservation. Such a frag-
ment as this is of itself a monument of the culture and intelligence of
the nation to which it formerly belonged.

We left Kous, and arrived at Keneh, where we found a number of
merchants of all nations, and among them ope who had often been
to Darfur, where the caravans arrive from Tombuctoo, who gave me
the following itinerary of the route from Siut to Darfur and Sennaar,
by Dongola : — ' From Siut by thedesert, in a south-westerly direction,
four days are required to reach Korg-Eluah, the most populous and
best cultivated of the oases, there is found a stream of fresh water,
which, rising out of the ground, is, after a short course,, lost in it again :
there is a fortress, and a large village.

' From Korg-Eluah to Bulague, another oasis, half a day's journey;
there is a small village, and well tasted water, which, however, is apt
to disagree with those who are not accustomed to it.

' From Bulague to El-Bsactah, one day : brackish water.

' From El-Bsactah to Beris, half a day's journey. There you find
a large village, and tolerably good water.

' From Beris to El-Mekh, two hours. There it is necessary to lay
in a stock of water, for the oases cease at El-Mekh, and nothing but
salt or brackish water is to be met with for several days. Travelling
from this place in the same direction as at first, after six days, you reach
Desir.

* From Desir to Selima, three days: salt water, but not quite un-
drinkable.

' From Selima to Dongola, where you again meet with the Nile, four
days. Here a fresh supply of water and provisions must be laid in.

* From Dongola, bearing away more to the west for four days, you
arrive at EI-Goyah.

' From EI-Goyah to Zagaoneh, six days : brackish water.

* From Zagaoneh to Darfur, ten days :" without meeting with either
village or water.

* The othef route from Dongola to Darfur requires, seventeen days

Digitized by LjOOQIC

174 THE LIFE OF

however, produced by an unforeseen circumstance, did
not change any of the dispositions of the comnhanders of
the two armies.

march* in a southerly direction tpSennaar, and thence to Darfur twelve
days travelling due west.

' It is above all essential in such a journey, to be sufficiently well
mounted, to keep up with the caravan, as this stops for no one, and
he who goes slower tnan the rest is necessarily left behind.1

Beneadi, a town two miles long, and containing twelve thousand
inhabitants, always rebellious against every government, from its situ-
ation on the verge of the desert, had called in the Arabs ; a caravan
from Darftjr had also iust arrived. Murad-Bey, profiting .by this
concurrence, had foumf means to excite the whole to arms, when Ge-
neral Davoust was despatched with cavalry to Beneadi : common
tranquillity required the destruction of a volcano that was incessantly
threatening us : the troops animated with the hope of plunder, in an
instant swept away the whole village ; those at the inhabitants that
iped joined the remnant of the Meccans, marched against Miniet*

and were put to the sword m a second encounter

While at Keneb, I had to regret the death of a crocodile, which
some peasants having surprised asleep, had bound and brought alive to
the officer who commanded during the absence of General Beliard ;
the animal being vet young, and fettered by an iron circle between the
shoulders and belly, could not be very formidable : we might have
observed and become acquainted with its habits, which are unknown
even in its native country, so much is it an object of terror! It would
have been curious, to see its manner of eating, to ascertain what kind
of food it lives on, whether mastication is necessary to it, and if so,
haw ?t it effected in an animal possessed only of cutting teeth ; how
its throat supplies the place of a tongue, and whether advantage might
be taken of its voracity to render it tame. It might, perhaps,
have been brought alive to France, and submitted to the examina-
tion of the naturalists and the curiosity of the Parisians. In my wan-
derings on the banks of this river I nave seen a great number of all
stsest from three to twenty-six or twenty-eight feet in length : many
officers worthy of credit assured me that they met witK one no less
than forty feet long. ^ They are by no means so ferocious as is pre-
tended: their favourite resorts are the low islands of the river, where
they are seen basking in the sun (the most intense heat of. which ap-
pears highly grateful to them) by numbers at a time, asleep and mo?
tionless jijce so many logs of wood, surrounded by birds, who appear
totally unmindful of them.

From the window of my apartment at Keneb, I saw the ruins 6t
Tentyia, two leagues off, on the other side of the Nile ; those ruins,
the recollection of which inspired me with so much interest, mixed at
the same time with regret, at not having had an opportunity to make
a leisure- sncvey of a zodiac, which clearly proves the deep know-
eA_ ^? ancient Egyptians in astronomy.

jVom Zfendera to tfie reins of Tentyra is only twenty minutes ride :

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 175

Sir Sidney Smith, having considered the terms re-
quired by Kleber, replied (Jan. 1st, 1800), by sending

this latter place from its ancient monuments, is tailed by the Arabs,
Beibeh. We arrived at the town in the evening, and the next morn-
ing, with a guard of thirty men, I went to the ruins, and took pobes-
sion of them in the fulness of repose and quiet. 1 was deMgnted-'to
find that my enthusiastic admiration of the great temple was not an
illusion produced by the novelty of its appearance, since 'after having
seen all the other Egyptian monuments, this still appeared the mast
perfect in its execution, and constructed at the happiest period of tfae
arts and sciences: everything in it is laboured, interesting, and' im-
portant. It would be necessary to draw the whole in its most minute
detail, to possess ourselves of all that is worth carrying- away : nothing
has been made without some end in view, without contributing in a
greater or lesser degree to the perfection and harmony of 'the 'whole.
As my time here was very limited, I began wkh what had been thenrui-
cipal object of my journey hither, the celestial planisphere, which oc-
cupies part of the ceiling of a Kttle apartment, built over the nave of
the great temple. I also copied the rest of the ceiling, which is divi-
ded into two equal parts, by a large figure, seemingly an Isis j herfeet rest
upon the earth, her arms are extended 'towards heaven, and she ap-
pears to occupy all the space between, fn another part of the ceiling
is a figure, probably representing heaven or the year, with its
hands and feet on the same level, and enfolding with the curvature of
the body fourteen globes, placed on as many boats, distributed over
seven bands or zones, separated from each other by numberless hiero-
glyphics, but almost totally covered with stalactites and smoke.

Behind this first chamber is a second, which receives Hght only
through the door ; this is also covered %with most interesting and ad-
mirably executed hieroglyphical delineations. It is difficult to ima-
gine what could be the use of this little edifice, -so carefully finished^
and • ornamented with designs so evidently scientific : those on the
ceilings appear to relate to the motions of (he heavenly bodies, and
those on the walls have probably some reference to the earth, and
the influences of the air and water. The earth is universally repre-
sented by the figure of Isis, who was the presiding divinity in ail the
temples of Tentyra, and whose emblem or figure is found in every
part ; her head is seen forming the capital of the columns belonging' to
the portico, and the first chamber or the great temple : it is afco in
the centre of the astragal, and sculptured in gigantic proportions, on
the outside of the foundation wall: it is the distinguishing object ia
the ornaments of the frieze and the cornice, and is consptewous in «H
the pictures with her proper attributes. It Is Isis* to 'whom' the *atfer*
ings are made, when presented by herself to her 'husband Osiris .1
her figure is inscribed on the outer gates of the enclosure, 'and to
her are dedicated the little temples that are there ratfesented. Is
that on the right hand of the entrance, she is triumphing' oner two
evil genii behind the great temple ; she is variously described as fold-
ing Horus in her arms, defending him from every bdtttte attempt, «■*

Digitized by

Google

176 ■,rH* i-IFE 0F

him, as a proof of his sincere desire to do all that depended
on himself, the copy of the treaty of the 5th of January.

'trusting him only to figures like cows, and suckling hiin at every age,
from infancy to puberty.

I employed much time in measuring the capitals and columns, in
making plaits and elevations, and taking views of the gates. There
are now neither doors nor even hinges to these gates, which
formerly secluded from profane eyes those mysteries of which the
priests were so jealous, and also, perhaps, concealed the treasures of
the state. The chambers consecrated to eternal night, the mysteri-
ousness of the worship, obscure as the temples themselves, the secret
initiations, so difficult to be obtained, and for ever shut against stran-
gers, and the sudden overthrpw both of the government and reli-
gion, as soon as Cambyseshad violated the sanctuaries, overthrown the
divinities, and carried away the treasures, all combine to prove that,
within these temples was contained the essence of all, and that
v hence emanated the civil and religious authority of the state.

Just before setting off, I took a general view of the site of Tentyra,
and the group of monuments that overlook the town, with the moun-
tains rising in the distance. . I also copied an inscription in beautiful
large Greek characters, placed like that at Kous, on the lintels to the
right and left of the top of one of the outer gates, to the south of the
great temple. The following, according to the literati whom J have
consulted, is the translation of the inscription :

" On account of the emperor Caesar, the Divine, the son of Jupiter,
the Deliverer, when Pubiius Octavius being governor, Marcus Clau-
dius Postumus, commander-in-chief, and Tryphon, general, the depu-
ties of the metropolis consecrated, in virtue of the law, the propyheum
to Isis, the greatest of the goddesses, and to the associated gods of the
temple, in the thirty-first year of Caesar, on the sacred day of Thoth.'*
Some days after my return from Tentyra, the cavalry was sent to
protect a military chest, which was to be conveyed from Esneh to
Keneb. I took advantage of this escort to visit Keft, or Copthos, so
celebrated by the calamities which it underwent in the time of the
persecutions by Dioclesian. I was struck on entering the town with
the good preservation of its different monuments ; the ancient part
still remains in the state in which it was left by the conflagration
which terminated the long sieffe that destroyed it in the third cen-
tury ; the old limits of the city have been abandoned, and to this has
succeeded an Arab town, with a boundary wall of unbaked bricks,
beyond which, verging to the west, was built the village of Keft,
which still exists. Was Copthos the ancient name of this" town ?
And did the ancient Copts take their name from that of Copthos,
where zeal collected their numbers, and made them sustain so obsti-
nate and disastrous a siege in the time of Dioclesian? One may evi-
dently distinguish the ditterent ruins of two temples of high antiquity,
and those of a catholic church, in which taste and art in tne construc-
tion were certainly less remarkable than the magnificence and richness
of the materials employed ; the fragments of porphyry and granite co-
lumns and pilasters, scattered over a vast space of ground, remain to
attest the opulence and luxury of the first believers ; but the sculp-

Digitized by

Google

Napoleon boNaparte. j?f

fie requested him to remark the freedom with which he
had acted in this affair, and by reading the treaty con-

tare on tije done friezes, some fragments of which are still visible;
show that at this period the efforts at embellishment, which art could
command, only impoverished the sumptuous magnificence of the ma'
terials. AH these monuments lie without form and order on the
ground, excepting a few portions still left standing.

I had often heard speak of the kamsin, which may be termed the
hurricane of Egypt and the desert ; it is equally terrible by the fright-
ful spectacle which it exhibits when present, and by the consequences
which follow its ravages. We had passed one half of the season in
which it appears, when, on the evening of the 18th of May, 1 felt
entirely overcome by a suffocating heat ; as if the fluctuation of the
air was suddenly suspended. I went out to bathe, in order to over-
come so painful a sensation, when I was struck, on my arrival at the
bank of the Nile, with a new appearance of nature around me*
The sun without being concealed, had lost its rays : it had even less
lustre to the eye than the moon, and save a pale light without shade ;
the water no longer reflected its rays, but appeared in agitation ; every
thing had changed its usual aspect ; the flat shore seemed luminous^
and the air dull and opaque ; the yellow horizon showed the trees on
its surface of a dirty blue : flocks' of birds were flying before the
cloud ; the frighted animals ran loose in the country, followed by the
shouting inhabitants, who vainly attempted to collect them together ;
the wind, which had raised this immense mass of vapour, and was
urging it forward, had not yet reached us ; we thought that by plun-
ging our bodies into the water, which was then calm, we could prevent
the baneful effects of this mass of dust, which was advancing from
the south-west ; t>ut we had hardly entered the river when it began to
swell, as if overflowing its channel, the waves passed over our heads,
and we felt the bottom heave up under our feet ; our clothes were
. conveyed away along with the shore itself, which seemed to be car-
ried on by the whirlwind which had now reached us; we were com-
pelled to leave the water, and our wet and naked bodies, being
assailed by a storm of sand, were soon encrusted with black mud*
which prevented our dressing ; enlightened only by a red and gloomy
sun, with our eyes smarting, our noses stuffed up, and our throats
clogged with dust, so that we could hardly breathe, we lost each
other, and arrived at our lodgings one by one, groping our way, and

Suided only by the walls. We could now easily conceive the
readful situation of those who are surprised by such a phenomenon,
When crossing the naked deserts ; and being accustomed to the serene
sky of Egypt, we could hardly bear with patience such a sudden
transition.

Two days after* we were told that the plain was covered with
birds, passing on from east to west, like the close files of an army ;
and we saw the fields appear to move, like a broad torrent flowing
through the country. Thinking they might be some foreign birds we
hastened out to meet them ; but instead of birds we beheld a cloud
of locusts, which skimmed the soil, stopping at each blade of gras*
to devour it, and' then flying off to new food.

VOL. II.— 20. A a

Digitized by

Google

178 THE LIFE OF

eluded between England and Turkey, to judge of the ties
which restrained him from acquiescing with the last

We left Keneh the 26th of May, at ten in the morning, and ar-
rived at four in the afternoon at Birambarr or fiiralbarr [the Well qf
Wells J a village on the edge of the desert, about as high up as Cop-
thos, and opposite to the defile which leads to Kittah, a fountain, of
which I have spoken above, as the radiating centre of all the different
roads that lead to Cosseir.

In quitting Biralbarr we turned to the east, entering a* long wide
valley, forming an extensive plain, and at day-break arrived at
the Kittah, a singular fountain, situated on a higher level than all the
surrounding ground ; it consists of three wells six feet in depth, and
there is here a small mosque, or caravansary, which serves for shelter
to travellers when they are not very numerous.

Jn proportion as we descended, the mountains diminished in
height. We stopped to sleep some hours, after having marched
eighteen. At day-break we found the valley much enlarged, and
soon arrived at the fountain Ambagi, where we saw seven or eight
palm-trees, forming the only grove that is to be seen for fifty leagues
around.

I perceived by the lightness of the air that we were approaching
the sea; and soon saw the waves breaking on the reefs whicn line the
shore. A mist on the horizon pointed out to us the Asiatic coast,
which, however, was too far to be at all discernbile. The Ababcles
Arabs, who had preceded us, had gone on before to give notice of
our arrival to the inhabitants of Cosseir, and we saw them return with
the shieks of the town and their followers, driving before them a
flock of sheep, the first offering of peace and homage. I had formed
such an idea of a pitiful town and ruined castle in Cosseir, that when
I came to them, I thought the former almost splendid, and the castle,
a fort. The port and road of Cosseir is formed by reefs, which defend
it from the north-north-west winds, and a headland that protects it from
the south-south-east. The Arab houses are composed of a few pieces
of wood that support some miserable mats, under which the inhabitants
live on shell-fisn, and form all their household utensils of the shells ;
and even work them into boxes, which are not without elegance. It
would have been Interesting to have reconnoitred, the roaa of Bere-
nice, which was made at a vast expense by the Ptolemies, forty
leagues to the south, and afterwards abandoned for that of Cosseir,
which, however, will only hold a small number of merchant-ships of
inferior size, as the depth of water is only two fathoms, and two and
a half where it is deepest.

The coast all about Cosseir is frightfully poor and barren, but the
sea is rich in fish, shells, and corals ; the latter are so numerous, that
it might have been here that the whole sea acquired the name of
Red, whilst the sand on the shore is so white. The reefs are only
coral and madrepores, as well as all the rocks which lie in these seas,
to within half a league of the shore.

Our return was still more rapid than our journey out. We retraced
our march in two days and a half; but, for the last half day we were
quite overcome by fatigue and drought, and I could only auench
my thirst by eating largely of melons, and plunging into the Nile.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 179

propositions of Kleber, which he was certain would not
be approved. He added, that the Venetian islands were

Hours of March of our loaded Camels from Keneh on the Nile
to Cosseir.

h. min.

From Keneh to Byr-al-Barr 3 50

To the bait for thtfnight io the desert 4 45

ToKittah *.„ 3 30

To the night-halt .*-.. .._....- 4 30

To the first fountain 9 .35

To the second, called El-ad-Houte „ 0 45

To the night-halt 4 30

To the fountain of Ambagi 8 45

ToCosseir 1 45

Total 41 55

We made an expedition to Sahmateh and Abumanah, frontier
places of the government 0/ the Thebaid, to settle with the inhabi-
tants for the necessary labours of dykes and canals. Our General
was received like the governor of a province; the kaimakan, or
general of the armed inhabitants, who was a rich man, had prepared
for us, one of his estates, a large court, well watered, which in some
degree quelled the burning heat of the season. In the evening he
gave a supper to ourselves, the sheiks of the province, the detach-
ment which accompanied us, as well as the numerous servants who had
constituted themselves part of our suite.

M . Gerard, and eight members of the committee of arts, being
about to proceed up the Nile, to make a chart of its course, offered
me an opportunity of renewing my travels, and in this journey it was
that I made a drawing of the zodiac, which is on the1" ceiling of the
portico at Tentyra ; that I enriched my collection with these new
proofs of the skill of the Egyptians in astronomy, with a number of
drawings and hieroglyphical inscriptions, which, compared, examined,
and discussed in the tranquillity of the closet, ought to reveal their
mysteries, or convince us that they are not to be found out. I pro-
cured also many facts relative to the state of the fine arts in par-
ticular, by a discovery of the proportions traced upon a human
figure with red chalk, and afterwards covered by a thin stucco,
a method, no doubt, adopted by the Egyptians to give a finer finish
to their bas reliefs, and render their paintings indestructible. I
made an outline drawing of the bas-relief and the lines, by which the
figure was divided into proportions ; hence we may infer the princi-
ples which they had adopted, their mode of applying them, and, in
. short, their method of proceeding, which, to the advantage of pre-
venting at once all errors, all unharmonious combinations, and igno-
ble proportions, unites that of attaining the constant equality obser-
vable in their works ; an equality which, if it is detrimental to the
•allies of genius and the expression of delicate sentiment, tends at

Digitized by

Google

180

THE LIFE OF

not solely in the power of the Ottoman troops ; that
Malta was besieged conjointly by the English and Nea-

least to the perfection of uniformity, converts drawing into a mecha-
nical art, and reduces sculpture to an accessary proper for the deco-
ration and enriching of architecture, to a method of expressing ideas,
in short, to writing. It is worthy of remark that, according to the
Egyptians the human figure was divided into twenty-two parts
and a half, of which the head took, ,up.tWQ.aod two-thirds, or the
eighth of the whole, corresponding jn this respect with the heroic
style among the Greeks. «

I observed also among the feasrreljefs a little votive temple, with a
pediment, which is never used. in Egyptian . architecture ; a small
figure holding a rabbit shows that .in merely ornamental works the
Egyptian artists. could occasionally deviate from their usual severity ;
a statue modelled from this very figure would be a Greek fawn.

On the 26th of June the Nile began to rise, and on this and the
two following days had attained the height of three inches, it then
increased at the rate of two inches a day, and afterwards at three
inches; the water now filled the banks, ceased to be green, without*
however, becoming muddy. It was proposed to make a tour, in
order to examine the canals and the intended improvements.

The heat was extreme on the first of July, two soldiers fainted
while we were leaving Keneh, and on the next* morning fifteen others
were obliged to be left behind.

We rested one day at Kous, and on the third arrived by sunrise at
Karaac. Among the new discoveries which I made while traversing
the ruins of the temple, may be mentioned a figure that I perceived
on the outer wails of the small buildings by the side of the sanctuary :
the figure represents a person making an offering of two obelisks. I
saw arao delineated the gate of a temple, with two folding doors, shut
by exactly the same kind of wooden bolts that are at present made
use of,

To the several descriptions that I have already given of this gigan-
tic monument, I may add, that on the south side of the first court
there is a particular edifice comprised within the general circumval-
lation, consisting of a boundary wall and a gate, opening into a court
surrounded with a pilastered" gallery, in front of which are figures
with their arms crossed, and holding in one hand a scourge and in
the other a kind of hook ; there are besides two lateral galleries, five
antechambers on the basement, with five chambers behind them, the
whole terminated by another gallery abutting on the side courts of
the large temple. This was, perhaps, the palace, or rather the splen-
did prison of the kinos, and the idea is rendered probable by the
sculptured figures on the side of the sate, representing heroes holding
by the hair conquered prisoners, and presented by the divinities with
pew arms for future victories. Would not this be consonant to what
Herodotus informs us of the regulations concerning the kings, of the
obligation that they were under to be served, advised, and always
accompanied by priests, obliged every morning to hear a lecture on

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 181

politaus ; that the cession and guarantee of that island
was not at the disposition of the Sublime Porte ; that •

their duties, and then to offer in the temple the homage of their au-
thority to the Divinity, and acknowledge that they held it of him, and
could only preserve it by his assistance ?

At Luxor, where we dined, the people brought to the General a
little crocodile, only five inches long ; the inbred terror with which
this animal inspires the Egyptians had induced the man who found it
to kill it, notwithstanding its inability at so tender an age to do any
injury ; bo t fear is revengeful, so that we again lost an opportunity of
observing the manners of this inhabitant of the Nile.

We proceeded on the morrow to Salamieh, and arrived in good
time the next day at Esneh. General Beliard wished to extend his
researches still higher, and I was unwilling to part with him ; besides,
I had still to take a side view of the temple at Apollinopolis, whither I
resolved to go, notwithstanding the fatigue of such a journey at this
sultry season.

>W title following the course of a canal between Bassalier El-M oecat,
our notice was drawn by a hillock of bricks, called Com-El-Achmart ;
at the southern extremity of this we discovered the foundation of an
Egyptian temple, and a few courses of the basement of a portico,- the
whole covered with hieroglyphics. This unknown ruin had hitherto
escaped geographers and travellers, both ancient and modern. Are
not these, probably, the remains of Silsilis? — a town whose name has
been transferred to Che neighbouring quarries.

I was now, for the third time, at Etfu, and its temple appeared
more- magnificent than ever. I discovered a way through the ruins
into one of the interior chambers, which appeared to be the second
behind the portico, and immediately preceding the sanctuary ; all
that the heaps of ruins allowed me to see was the sculpture, being highly
finished in- excellently good taste : the freestone of which the building
was constructed being iner than any other that I had inspected, all the
work engraven upon it had retained its original boldness and delicacy,
as if the material had been marble.

On returning from Esneh, I went to visit the temple which is in the
plain to the right of the road to Harment ; the moving sands, or a de-
fect in the foundation have caused partial sinkings, by which several
of the columns are thrown out .of a perpendicular, and the ceiling
of the portico is much damaged.

The parts beyond the portico are trivial and display little
decoration. The sanctuary is totally destroyed ; but from what re-
mains of the outer wall, there seems to have been an exterior gallery
qukei round the temple. .Some of the rubbish has lately been re.
moved by Assan<-Bey, and this has discovered some underground
buildings, which show that the temple formerly extended beyond the
portico : the remains of this last consist of eight columns, with broad
capitals, diifering from each other in the ornaments that they bear ;
in the one it is the vine, in another the ivy, in a third the palm-leaf.
Some enormous and very well made bricks announce that the edi*
jices which surrounded the temple had been carefully constructed.

Digitized by

Google

152 Tflfi UPB OF

the triple alliance being only defensive, its dissolution
was not necessary ; that it was impossible to consent to

.Could it have been Aphroditopolis, which Strata places hereabouts,
though, in my opinion, too near to Latopolis, the modern Esneh r
Probably not ; for the fragments that remain have so little extent,
that they were to all appearance merely dependencies of one large
building. Nor is there any reason to suppose that there are any ad-
joining temples buried in the sand, for the ground is here quite level,
very hard, and constantly swept by the wind : besides, nothing is
easier than to recognise spots that have formerly been the seat of a
numerous population. We may therefore suppose .that there were
monasteries, sanctuaries, and detached chapels near the Egyptian
* towns, as there are in the catholic countries of Europe, madonnas,
.saints, and miraculous grottoes, where religious zeal was enlivened by
silence and mystery. The small temple near Chnubis, and another
on the right bank of the river, opposite Esneh, are other examples of
the existence of these kinds of religious edifices ; the hieroglyphics
which cover the outer walls, and the inside of the portico of this un-
known ruin, are in an ordinary style, and of indifferent execution :
a few astronomical figures are observable on the ceiling of the portico,
coarsely executed, but which serve to show that the exterior of these
temples was devoted to astronomy, to the history of the heavens and
the seasons, and of those epochs formed by the revolution of the
stars.

On the 9th of July, at day-break, we departed : our road lay by the
side of Asfun, two leagues and a half from Esneh ; this village is built
on vast heaps of rubbish, among which it appears more natural to
look for the ruins of Aphroditopolis, Asphinis, or Asphunis, than
among those of the temple just described. What Strata says of this
town agrees better with its distance from Latopolis, and the resem- -
blance of the name Asfun to Asphunis inclines me to indulge this
opinion. Sofinis, indeed, half a league further on, has also emi-
nences, though less considerable ; but as neither village is possessed
-of any monuments above ground, we must wait for some excavations to
be made, before it can be decided to which belongs the honour of
having been the city of Venus.

We were approaching Thebes, and I was this time to visit the
tombs of the kings. I gallopped before the p&rty, to take a view of
the ruined temples of Med i net- Abu, where I had settled to rejoin the
troop. I arrived here an hour before the rest, and employed myself
in taking a view of the temple which adjoins the village : to the right
is a square monument that probably was a palace contiguous to the
temple, very small Indeed, but of which the neighbouring porticos
might serve as prolongations, in a climate where open galleries and
terraces answer the purposes of apartments. I saw a small palace, the
character of which is entirely different from that of the other edifices ;
both in its plan, and a sort of balconies supported by four heads in
the attitudes of caryatides. These sculptures, as well as those in that
part of the temple of Karnac, which I suspect to have been a palace,
.represent the figures of kings menacing groups of prostrate captives.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 18Jfr

the transporting of jthe French army to any point from
whence there was a possibility of its pttackipg other

Keeping still before the troop, I hastened to the two colossal sta-
* tues, and took a view 6f them with the effect of the sun-rise, at the
same hour as strangers used to resort thither to hear the musical sounds
from the colossus of Memnon. I then proceeded to the solitary place
called the Memnonium. We passed through the village of Kurnu,
the ancient Necropolis, and, in approaching those subterranean habi-
tations, we were for the third time saluted by the incorrigible inhabit-
ants with a volley of musquetry. This was the only place in Up-
per Egypt which held out against our government. Strong in their
sepulchral retreats, they came out like spectres, fortified in their
disobedience by the obscurity of these excavations, which are so nu-
merous, as of themselves to attest the immense population of ancient
Thebe9. It was across these humbler tombs that the kings were car*
ried two leagues from the palace, into the silent valley that was to
become their lasting abode. It was not till after marching three
quarters of an hour in this desert valley, that in the midst of the
rocks we observed, some openings paralled to the ground : these at
first displayed no other architectural orname/its than a door in a
simple square frame, with a flattened oval in the centre of the upper
part, in which are inscribed in hieroglyphics a beetle, the figure of a v
man with a hawk's head, and beyond the circle two figures on theit
knees in the act of adoration. As soon as the threshold of the first
gate is passed, you discover long galleries twelve feet wide and
twenty in height, cased with stucco, sculptured and painted; the
arches, of an elegant elliptical figure, are covered with innumerable
hieroglyphics, disposed with so much taste, that notwithstanding the
singular grotesque forms, and a total absence of derm-tint, or aerial
perspective, the ceilings form an agreeable whole, and a rich and
harmonious association of colours. I had merely time to pass on from
one tomb to another : at the end of the galleries were the sarcophagi
unconnected with each other, composed of a single block of granite,
twelve feet long by eight in breadth, ornamented with hieroglyphics
both within and without ; at one end they were rounded, and at the
other squared. The tombs were covered by a lid of the same mate-
rial, and of an enormous mass, shutting with a groove ; but neither
that precaution, nor the vast blocks ot stone> brought from such a
distance and at so great an expense, have been able to preserve the
relics of the sovereigns from the attempts of avarice ; all the tombs
have been violated : on the lid of the first sarcophagus that we met
. with, the figure of the king, or of some protecting divinity, is
sculptured ; but so worn, that it is nmpossibie to distinguish by* the
dress whether it is a king, a priest, or a divinity. In other tombs the
sepulchral chamber is surrounded by a pilastered portico, whose gal-
leries, bordered with recesses supported in the same manner, and
lateral chambers hollowed into the rock, are covered with a white
and fine stucco, on which are hieroglyphics in a wonderful state of
preservation ; /for, except two of the eight tombs that I visited,
which have been injured by water trickling down, all the rest are in

Digitized by

Google

184 tuE LIFE OF

stakes ; bat that its retain to France, with arms and bag"
gage, as had been promised, should be faithfully executed.

full perfection, and the paintings as fresh as when they were first
executed : the colours of the ceilings, exhibiting yellow figures on a -
blue ground, are designed with a taste that might decorate our most
splendid saloons.

The trumpet had already sounded to horse, when I discovered
some little chambers, on the walls of which were represented all
kinds of arms, such as panoplies, coats of mail, tigers' skins, bows*
arrows, quivers, pikes, javelins, sabres, casques, and whips: in ano-
ther was a collection of household utensils, such as caskets, chests of
drawers, chairs, sofas, and beds, all of exquisite forms, and such as
might well grace the apartments of modem luxury ; as these were
probably accurate representations of the objects themselves, it is al-
most a proof that the ancient Egyptians employed for their furniture
Indian woods, carved and gilt, which they covered with embroidery ;
besides there were represented various smaller articles, as vases,
coffee-pots, ewers with their basins, a tea-pot and basket. Another
chamber was consecrated to agriculture, in which we/e represented
all its various instruments, a sledge similar to those in use at present,
a man sowing grain by the side ot a canal, from the borders of which
the inundation is beginning to retire, a field of corn reaped with a
sickle, fields of rice with men watching them. In a fourth chamber
was a figure clothed in white, playing on a harp with eleven cords.
How was it possible to leave such precious curiosities, without taking
a drawing of them r I earnestly demanded a quarter of an hours
grace : I was allowed twenty minutes ; one person lighted me, while
another held a taper to every object that I pointed out to him. • I ob-
served many figures without heads ; I even found some with the head
cut off : these all represented black men, and those who -had- cut -the
heads off, and were still holding the oword, the instrument of ■ punish-*
merit, were coloured red. Could these be human sacrifices? Was
it the custom to immolate slaves to the tombs; or was it the rcprc±
sentation of an act of justice, and the punishment of the fcuilty ? I
carefully observed every thing that I met with, and carried off with
me all the fragments that were portable, making afterwards an inven-
tory of them. I found a beautiful little patera of baked earth,' a
fragment worthy of the finest period of the arts, in the most civilised
nations. I also found some fragments of divinities cut in sycamore-
wood with uncommon elegance, and a small foot of a mummy, which
does no less honour to nature, than the other fragments do to the arts.
It was no doubt the foot of a young woman, a princess, a lovely
creature, the perfect form of which had never been cramped by the
K?ity °* te&'ion. At length with much regret I quitted these
tombs, where I had remained three hours, and could easily have
found subjects to occupy me for as many days. The mystery and
magnificence observable within these excavations, the number of
doors by which they are protected, convince me that the religious
worship which hadf scooped out and decorated these grottoes, was

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BtiNAPARTE. J 85

' III the meantime, the plenipotentiaries bad debarked
at Jaffa, and repaired to the camp of the Grand Vizir

the tame aft that which raised the pyramids. At length we quitted
in haste these retreats, where so many interesting objects combined
to detain us, in order to arrive in good time at Allcate, where nobody
had any thing to do. 1 found on this' occasion, as on all others, that *
visit to Thebes was like the attack of a fever, it was a kind of crisis
which left behind an impression of indescribable impatience, enthu-
siasm, irritation, and fatigue.

The news of the return of out army from Syria was now announced.
1 calculated that as Upper Egypt had been conquered and secured
by us, and as Lower Egypt was about to be covered with water,
and would thereby for a long time be secure from any descent, Bona-
parte would find himself without any operation of great importance
on his hands, and would turn his views towards Europe. I had not,
however, began to look that way myself, and as Bonaparte, when he
brought me with him, had promised to convey me back, the remem-
brance gave me some trouble and impatience.

However, General Beliard had not forgotten the shots which had
been fired on us by the inhabitants Of Rurnu, and the time for punish-
kkq them was now arrived. This expedition would, of course, re-
quire some residence at Thebes. I therefore returned to visit, for
the seventh time; this great Diospolis, which I had always seen in
such haste, that regret was mingled with the gratification which I
received.

I now began my researches, accompanied by some volunteers, and
examined the grottoes ; they were constructed without magnificence,
consisting of a regular double gallery supported by pillars, behind
which was a row of dhambers, often double, and tolerably regular.
If we had not observed tombs, and even some remains of mummies,
we might be tempted to believe that these were the dwellings of the
primitive inhabitants of Egypt : or rather that, having first served
for this purpose, these subterranean caves had become the abode of
the dead, and had, at last, been restored by the inhabitants of Kurnu
to their original destination.

In proportion as the height of these grottoes increase they become
mete richly decorated ; and 1 was soon convinced by the magnifi-
cence both of the paintings and sculptures, and of the subjects which
they represented, that I was among the tombs of great men or
heroes. Those which are believed to belong to ancient kings (which
m my last journey I went to visit three quarters of a league in the
desert) are only distinguished from the others by the magnificence
of the sarcophagi, and the mysterious solitude of their situation : the
others immediately overlook the great buildings in the town. The*
sculpture in all is incomparably more laboured and higher finished
than any that I had seen in the temples; it was like the work of the'
chisel itself, and I stood in astonishment at the high perfection of the
art* and of its singular destiny, to be fixed in places devoted to
science and obscurity. In the working of these galleries beds of a*
very ^ne grained calcareous clay have occasionally been crossed ; am?

VOL. IK— 21. B b

Digitized by

Google

136 THE LIFE OF •.

at EUArisb, in order to avoid the delays which freqoeritljr
occur in relations with the Turks, and Kleber perceiving

here the lines of the hieroglyphics have been cut withca firmness of
touch, and a precision, ot which marble offers but few examples ;
the figures have an elegance and correctness of contour, of which 1
never thought Egyptian sculpture susceptible. Here too I could
judge of the style of this people, in subjects which were neither hie-
roglyphic, historical, nor scientific, for these were representations
of small scenes taken from nature, in which the stiff profile outlines,
so common with the Egyptian artists, were exchanged: for supple and
natural attitudes ; groups of persons were given in perspective, and
cut in deeper relief than I should have supposed any thing but metal
could have been worked. I thought it necessary to bring back with
me some fragments of these bas-reliefs, as a specimen toothers of what
created in me so much surprise. One cannot help being struck with
the little analogy which the greater number of these subjects has
with the spot wherein they are immured ? it requires the presence ot*
mummies to persuade one's self that these excavations are tombs: I
have found here bas-reliefs representing games, such as rope-dancing :
and asses taught to play tricks and to rear on their hind-legs, which
are sculptured with all the nature and simplicity which Basra has
shown in representing the same animals on canvas:

The plan of these excavations is not less singular; there are some
which are so vast and complicated, that one would take them for la-
byrinths or subterranean temples. Some of the same people, with.'
whom we bad just been at war, served me as guides, and the clink of
money, that universal language, before which all hatred ceases, espe-
cially among the Arabs, had procured me friends with the fugitive*
inhabitants of Kurnu. Some of these had come to me privately when
I was at a distance from our camp, and attended me with great fide-
lity ; we penetrated together these subterranean labyrinths, which
indeed resembled, by their mysterious passages and windings, the
temples constructed for the trials of the initiated. After passing the
apartments, adorned in the elegant style that I have iust described,
we entered long and gloomy galleries, which wind backwards and -
forwards in numerous angles, and seem to occupy a great extent of
ground ; they are melancholy, repulsive, and without any decoration ^
but from time to time open into other chambers covered with hiero-
glyphics, and branch out into narrow paths that lead to deep perpen-
dicular pits, which we descended by resting our arms against the
sides, and fixing our feet into steps that are cut in the rock. At the
bottom of these pits we found other adorned chambers, and lower
still, a new series of perpendicular pits and horizontal chambers, and/
at last, ascending a long flight of steps, we arrived at an open place,
which we found to be on a level with the chambers we bad first
entered.

Jt would liave required several days to form an ide^a of the distri-
bution of these subterranean works, and to take plans of such intricate
labyrinths : if the magnificence displayed in the houses of the living
was at all equal to that of these ultimate habitations, as we have some

Digitized by

Google

Napoleon Bonaparte. 137

thai he could not obtain more favourable terms, author
rised General Desaix to agree to the definitive arrange*

reason to suppose, from the sumptuous pieces of furniture painted in
the tombs of the kings, how much must we regret that no vestige of
them remains f What can have become of palaces that contained
such opulence ! how can they have disappeared ! they cannot be bu*
ried under the mud of the Nile, since the quay which is before Luxor
shows, that the elevation which the soil has undergone is very incon-
siderable. Were they buiJt of unbaked and therefore perishable earth !
or did the great men, as well as the priests, inhabit the temples, and
thepeople only huts J

The next day I was conducted to new tombs and galleries, which
were less winding, and would serve as very agreeable habitations from
their situation, which enjoys day-light, pure and healthful air, and a
fine prospect : these were not different from the others in any point
of decoration, they had similar ornaments and paintings.

The figures of the gods are here carried by priests upon litters,
with banners waving over their heads, and followed by personages
bearing golden vases of several forms, calumets', arms, loaves of bread,
victuals of different kinds, and coffers of various constructions.

I could not distinguish in this procession which was the corpse y
perhaps it was enclosed in some sarcophagus, and surmounted by the
figures of the gods ; the women inarched in order, playing on musical
instruments ; one group of this kind was formed of three singers ac-
companying each other, one with the harp, another with a kind of
guitar, and the 'third probably with some wind instrument; but here
the figure was too much injured to enable as to determine what it
might be.

Beyond these subterranean caves is a monument built of unbaked
bricks, the lines of which have something elegant in them. The slope
of the walls and the capitals resemble the Egyptian style, but some of
the.outer ornaments, and the arches in the surbase, convince one that
this is an- Arab monument : it is considerable in si«e, and, from its situa-
tion, commands the whole territory of Thebes.

Several fragments of mummies were brought me : I promised an
unlimited reward to any person who should procure me one wttole and
untouched ; but the cupidity of the Arabs deprived me of this satis*
faction -, for they sell at Cairo the resin which they find in the bellies
and skulls of these mummies, and there is no preventing them from
committing this violence ; added to which, the fear of selling one
that might contain some treasures (though they have never found any
.among these antiquities) makes them always break the outer wooden co-
vering, and tear that, of painted cloth, which wraps round the whole
body, wherever much pains had been ta^en in the embalming. The
reader may judge how delightful this day was to roe in which I •
discovered so many new objects of curiosity.

The third day I went to Medinet-Abu, and revisited this vast edifice *
with new admiration. In a portico, I had time to observe, that the
sculptures on the inner wall represented the exploits and the triumph
of spme hero, perhaps Sesostris, who had carried his arms into foreign"

Digitized by

Google

188 TBKUPEOF

meat proper for the evacuation I bare already indicated
the motives thai determined Kleber to eater into ihif

countries, a»d obfeined victories in India, as all these bareeliei?
jeero to point out. Were I remarked the figure of a hero alone pm>
suing a whole array, which is flying from before him, and, to e§*
cape from his blows, throwing itself into some river, perhaps the
Indus, This hero, who is mounted on a small chariot, in which there
is only room for himself, drives two horses, holding the reins on a
level with his girdle : bucklers and heaps of arms are hung about him,
and around his car ; his stature is gigantic, and he holds an immense
bow, from which he is shooting arrows upon bearded and long-haired
enemies, who have not the least resemblance with the known forms of
Egyptian heads. Further on, he is represented sitting on the back
othis car, the horses of which are held by pages, and one person It
counting out before him the (nods cut off from the enemy killed in
battle, whilst another is inscribing the number,, and a third appears to
be proclaiming the sum. Some travellers have seep a second heap
of mutilations of another kind, which show, that the hero has not been
fighting against Amazons: but the figure of these mutilations did not
strike me, and I have accordingly not represented them. Prisoners
are also brought to him, confined in different ways ; they are all
clothed with flowing and striped robes, their hair is long ana matted,
and tables of hieroglyphics follow, fifty feet in diameter, which doubt-
less explain the meaning of the figures that precede them. Returning
to the left by another side of these galleries, a long bas-relief is seen>
that represents, in two lines, a triumphal march : it is probably the
same hero returning from his conquests ; some soldiers covered with
armour prove that the triumph is military, though a little further on
nothing is to be seen but priests,, or persons of Xhe class of the initiated,
without arms, and with long and transparent tunics : the arms of the
hero are covered with these garments ; he is borne on the shoulder*
of men on a palanquin, with all the attendants of a divinity ; before
and behind bun march priests, bearing palm-branches and calumets,
and incense is presented to him. He arrives in this state at the temple
Of the tutelar deity of Thebes, whom I have already described, and
offers to the god a sacrifice, in which he officiates as priest ; the match
continues, and the god is borne by twenty-four priests; the bull Apia*
with the attributes of divinity, marches before the hero, and a long
train of personages follow, holding each a banner, on the greater mint"
ber of which are the representations of different deities. When ar-
rived at the altar, a child appears with his hands tied behind his back*
who is about to be immolated before the conqueror, who has, stopped
to receive this horrible sacrifice, or to assist at this, execrable holo-
caust : beside them stands a priest, who is breaking the stem, of a
flower, and birds who are flying away, emblems^ the separation of the
soul from the body. The account which Longus andApuleius, in>
their romances of Theagenes and the Golden A**, have transmitted
to us of human sacrifices among the Egyptians, is therefore not a
fablfr and these polished people still retain some resemblance to bar-
barians. Next, the hero himself rr^kes a sacrifice to the god Apis*

igitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BON AT ARTE. 189

i
treaty} notwithstanding which, the folio wing observations
are well worthy remark* <

of a sheaf of wheat; a protecting genius accompan** hire throughout %
he changes his dress in the different parts of the ceremony, which
perhaps marks his various dignities or degrees of initiation, but the
same physiognomy is constantly preserved, which shows, that it it a
portrait ; his air is noble, august, and mild. In one picture he is hokb
lag nine persons, confined by the same chain* Are these the passions
personified? or, do they represent nine conquered nations? Incense
is offered to him in honour of these victories: a priest writes his annals,
and consigns them to sacred memorial.

It is therefore proved, that the ancient Egyptians had written
books; the famous Toth was then a book, and not inscribe^ tablets
sculptured on walls, as has been often supposed. I could no* help
flattering myself, that I was the first to make so important a discovery ;
but I was much more delighted, when, some hours after, I was
assured of the proof of my discovery, by the possession of a manu-
script itself, which I found in the hand of a fine mammy, that was
brought me : the reader should be a traveller, an inquirer, and an
amateur, to sympathize with my rapture on this occasion. When it was
delivered into my hands I foU that I turned pale with anxiety; I was
goins; to express mv indignation at those who had violated the integrity
of this mummy, when I perceived in its right hand, and resting on the
left arm, a roll of papyrus, on which was a manuscript, that I should
perhaps have never seen without this violation. I then Messed the
avarice of the Arabs, and my own good fortune, that had put me
in possession of a treasure, which 1 hardly dared to touch for fear
of injuring so sacred a manuscript, the oldest of all books in the
known world. I could not venture to entrust it out of my sight, and
all the cotton of my bed was devoted to wrapping it up with the)
utmost care. What could be ha contents? Was it the history' of
this, personage, the remarkable events of his life? was the period
ascertained by the date of the sovereign under whom be lived? or
did this precious roll contain maxims, prayers, or the history of sense
discovery ? I regretted not being 4bfe to draw every thing that I bad
seen daring the whole of this interesting day ; W, however, I had
ample reason to. be satisfied, for what other traveller had seen so many
new ©ejects?

A few days afterwards, I joined a detachment proceeding to make
a circuit round the district; and proposed to our leader to go to
Medioet-Abu, opposite to which we then were. Happily for me*
the officer did not calculate on the insufficiency of so weak an escort,
and we went all four well satisfied to pass the day in the shade of the
norticoes of MecUnet The inhabitants, who recollected me by sense
Iittie gifts that I bad made them, instead of resisting ub by arms,
brought us fresh wafer, bread, ripe dates, and grapes, ana 1 had
leisure to view every thing of which I had only had a glance the
evening, before. I took torches with me, which gave me an ©poor-*
tuaity of penetrating into the darkest places* I there found three*
small cbambrrt qovered with bafrvtHess, which had always been*

Digitized by

Google

190 THE LIFE OF

The Ottoman army amounted to upwards of 60,009
men, of whom a great part were already before El-Arisb,

dark ; -at the bottom of the third was a kind of stone-buffet, the
binges of which were still remaining, being ail that was particular in
this small adorned apartment) the innermost of three, and closed by
doors as strong as walls, which would make one expect to find some
carious treasure.

In my research I entered a hole which had been dug under the
foundations of* the part which appeared to me the most ancient: and

ret even here, at the base of one of the principal pillars of the edifice,
discovered foundation stones, on which were sculptured numerous*
hieroglyphics, as finely executed as those that decorated the outer
part of the building. From this circumstance, how great must we
suppose the antiquity to be of edifices so decorated ? and how many
preceding ages of civilization would it require to be able to erect
such buildings? How many ages, again, before these would have
fallen into ruins, and served as materials for the foundation of other
temples, which themselves have existed for so many centuries I The
annals of this wonderful country are mysterious, obscure, and infinite.

At the north of these temples we found the ruins of two figures of
granite, overthrown and broken. They might have been about
thirty-six feet in height; their attitude was the usual one, of the
right foot advanced, and the arms hanging down beside the body ;
and they doubtless adorned the gate of some large edifices, the rums
of which are now buried under the soil. I then went to the two
colossi, supposed to be those of Memnon. These two pieces of art
have nothing which seduces the judgement; but their proportions
are faultless.

I again examined the block of granite, which lies between these
two statues, and I am still more convinced that it is the ruins of
the famous colossal statue of Osymandias, who, from the inscription,
braved both the ravages of time and the pride of men : and that
the two figures which are left standing are those of his wife and
daughter.

Some of my friends from Kurnu had now joined me ; I calculated
that our party who hid gone to Hermontis could not return till late.
We therefore again began to search the tombs, always in the hope
t of finding some that had not been ransacked, that I might light upon-
an unrified mummy, and find out the manner in which they were
laid within the tombs. After many painful and fruitless researches,
we at last arrived at a hole before which were scattered numerous
fragments of mummies; the opening was narrow, and we looked at
each other to learn if there was any risk in going down ; jny com-
panions were curious, and we determined that one of the volunteers,
with my servant, should stay without to secure our guides, and pre-
vent them either from going away or advancing to us. We then
struck a light and entered the narrow passage; we were at first
obliged to grope our way oh our hands and knees, and in a minuteV
time one of our people cried out that he was nearly stifled ; we sent
him to the door to replace the centinel, and to expedite the latter to u*~

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 191

and the.remainder encamped before Jaffa and Ramleh.
The ships of the allies abundantly supplied those forces

taking his light ; having crawled along nearly a hundred paces over
a heap of dead and half decayed bodies ; the vault became loftier,
more spacious, and decorated with a considerable degree of care.
We now found that this tomb had already been searched, and that
those who had first entered it, not having torches, had used bushes
to give them light, and these had set fire first to the linen and after-
wards to the resin of the mummies, which had caused such a com-
bustion as to split some of the stones, melt the gums and resins, and
blacken all the sides of the cave. We could observe, however,
that this vault had been intended for the burial place of two con-
siderable persons, whose figures were sculptured in embossments,
seven feet in height, holding each other by the hand. Above their
heads was a bas-relief, representing two dogs in a leash ; lying on the
altar and kneeling, two figures had the appearance of worshipping*
which makes it probable that two friends were buried here, who
were unwilling to part even in death. Besides this, there were
lateral chambers unornamented, and fitted with corpses that had been
embalmed with more or less care ; snowing that though the tombs
had been constructed and decorated by persons of conseqnence, they
received not only the corpses of the founders, but of their children,
friends, relations, and perhaps all the servants of their house. Several
bodies swathed up, but without any coffin, were laying on the ground,
and there were as many of these as could be laia in regular order.
I here found the reason why so many small figures of baked earth,'
holding in one hand a whip, and in the other a bent staff, were
constantly found near these tombs ; for the religious enthusiasm of"
the Egyptians went so far as to lay these rows ot corpses upon beds,
formed entirely of these little images, a handful of which I put in.
my pocket. From a number of bodies which were not swathed up,
I could perceive that circumcision was a constant custom amongst
them, that depilation was not practised amongst the women, that,
their hair was long and flexible, and the character of the head in
a fine style. I brought away with me one of an old woman,
which was as striking as that of the sybils of Michael Angelo, and,.
indeed, a good deal resembles them. We then descended with some
inconvenience into several deep pits, where we found more mum-
mies, and large long pods of baked earth, with covers representing,
human heads; they contained nothing but some kind of resin. I,
could have willingly taken several drawings here, but I was too much
confined, we wanted air, our torches would hardly give any light,
added to which it began to grow very late, and patroles had been sent.
out to seek for us.

During my stay at Luxor I met with some fine medals of Augustus,
Adrian, and Trajan, with a crocodile on the reverse, struck in Egjpt,
in fine bronze, with Greek inscriptions, and a great number of medals,
of Constantine. I also found in the court of a private house a granite .
torso, of larger proportion than natural, representing the two signs/
of Lep and Virgo ; I bought it and embarked it on board our boats.

Digitized by

Google

lot THSJUFBOV

with ptiovfeion*, added fa which, Ike Arabs from different
ooontries had conducted nearly 16,000 Camels loaded.

I returned with a few siek soldiers to Keneh, and on nry arrival
there found two barks ready to sail for Cairo, and only waiting for
my coming on board.

Three miles lower down, on the right bank of the river, are the re-
mains of Chemmis or Panopolis, now called Achmin : there still is to
be seen, as I am informed, a building buried up to the very roof,
which, no doubt, is the temple formerly dedicated to Pan, and conse-
crated to prostitution ; a number of almehs and women of the town
still subsist here, as at Metubis, if not under the special protection, yet
at least acknowledged and tolerated by the government ; I was told
that on a particular day in every week they assembled in a inosque,
near the tomb of the sheik Harridi, where mingling sacred with pro-
fane, they commit all kinds of indecencies.

We passed the' night before Antiopolis, which still retains a lofty
portico, though much defaced, and on the tenth, at three in the after-
noon, arrived at the port of Siut.

In the evening we anchored before Monfalut, and at day break
(bund ourselves under the Mokatam, whose abrupt base is washed by the
Nile : there were formerly quarries worked here, the grottoes of which
still remain : they resemble those of Siut, and seem to have served as
tombs to the ancient Egyptians, and as places of retreat to the first
solitaries.

Beyond. Malui are seen, on the right bank, near the village of
Sheik-Abade, the ruins of Antinbe, built by Hadrian, in honour of
bis favourite Antinous, who sacrificed his own life in Egypt to save
that of his sovereign.

By the side of the river appears one of the city gates, resembling
a triumphal arch. It is decorated with eight Corinthian pillars, between
which are three arches springing from a buttress, ornamented with
pilasters: this group of rums is the most considerable of all that now
remains of Antinde. From- this point there seems to have been a
street passing in a straight line across the town to the opposite gate :
both sides of this street appear to have been adorned with a colonnade
of Doric pillars, under which one might walk in the shade. The cir-
cuit of Antinbe was very great, if the ruins of Besa, by being mkv-
gled with its own, have not increased its extent.

At day-break we found ourselves before the monastery of the
Qiatn, situated on apeak of the Mokatam Mountains. The monks
Who inhabit it swim into the stream to request alms of the boats that
pass by. Besides being exposed alternately to the inclemency of
three elements, they are in a manner destitute of the fourth ; an im-
mense desert cuts them off from all cultivation ; they are burnt up
by the rays, of a vertical sun unremittingly darted on their dry and
barren rocks; and it is with difficulty, and by swimming, that they
can obtain a few occasional alms. It is called the Monastery of the
Chain, because they can only procure supplies of water and other
necessaries, by means of a long chain attached to a windlass which they
let down to the river.

Digitized by

Google

I

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. \Q%

The pMMge »f:tbe desert was do longer opposed fat by
the lesMsUtee which' ww were abttt to effer on Abet point.

. We spent the night near Abu-Siefen, 3 Goeiie monastery, the first
position beyond Cairo, where out troops were lodged, and fortifier)
themselves after the battle of the pyramids.

I agam passed by the pyramids of Saccate, before tt*?t immense
number of monuments which decorated the field of death, tbe Ne-
cropolis of Memphis, and bounded that city on the south, as the py-
ramids of Gizch did on the north. We might still be seekmg in vain
the site of that superb city, which succeeded in metropolitan dignity
to Thebes, and even eclipsed its grandeur, if these sumptuous tombs
did net attest its existence, and ascertain iodubtabjy.the .extent, of
ground it occupied. *

At day-break we found ourselves between £Her-Anabi and Gisa,
opposite Roda* with Cairo and Bulac on oar right, forming & rich
combination of verdure, finely contrasted with the bare and wild ap-
pearance of the two ridges that terminate the horizon.

As i was the first member of the Institute who had arrived from
Upper Egypt, my associates surrounded and overwhelmed me with
questions ; my first pleasure was to find myself thus the object of their
eager curiosity, and to profit by the observation* they madev
. ;. Bonaparte on his return to Catron examined my journal most atten-
tively ; and satisfied that tbe object of my mission had been accom*
pushed,- invited me to go to- Alexandria, and carry thither the trophies
of Abottktr. General Berthier, whose kindness rhad experienced on
all occasions, allowed me the company and assistance of my* nephew
on my return in the same handsome manner as Dufatgs had resigned
him to me when first entering upon the expedition: it was only a
few days since I had quitted Thebes, and I seemed akeady within
sight of Paris, as my departure was fixed for the morrow. . Stm* how*
ever, a feeling which I Jmow not how to describe, made srie regret
my departure from Cairo, a town which. I had inhabited only at short
intervals, and which J never had quitted without pain. I now found
how naturally and imperceptibly an attachment steals on to the sweet
and even enjoyment of a delicious temewrafnre, which, without the aid
of other pleasures, inspires a continually active sensation of happy
existence. •

In this surprising expedition it was my fate, both going and return-
ing, to be one of the van : in two days I embarked in a small armed
vessel, that was waiting for us at BuJac. On. the third day from our
departerelfoumlmyfeelfatftahmameh) we set est fsbfri thence on the
morrow, accompanied by a detatebment of avomedaries and fifty men,
tor Dernenhur, from which place, following the canal, of Alexandria,
after traversing the province of Garbieb, we arrived at Bwkit, where
we halted for the night The next day we brwacfrsted at the well of
Bender, and dined at Alexandria.

On my arrival here, the first objects thatstruckmy attention were
two of our frigates ready foe sea, lying at single anchor est the new
port; nota single English cruises was in sight, and I began' to believe
in prodigies. Generals Lasnes, Mtrat, and Marrftont, were 1 ' * x

VOL. II.— 21. cc

Digitized by

Google

J94 TIIE UPE OF

The disposable force which Kleher had to combat the
enemy was only 10,000 men, divided amongst the impor-
tant posts of Catbieh, Salehieb, and Belbeis, which he
was equally obliged to gaard with the utmost vigilance,
to preserve his communications with Cairo, and enable
him to march wherever he should be menaced. He had
about 1000 men at Lesbeb, to guarantee that side from
insurrection ; 1,800 at Aboukir, Rosetta, and some other
places of the Delta ; 1,200 at Cairo and Gizeh ; and nearly
2,500 in Upper Egypt, to hold in check Murad Bey,
always active, never beaten, and constantly harassing oar
troops. Such was the situation of Kleber at the period
when he concluded the convention of El-Arish ; to which

with anxiety ; we listened without saying a word ; were unable to
occupy our attention with any thing ; were constantly crowding to
the same window ; scrutinizing the sea, and watching with suspicion
the movements of the smallest boat : at length, at one in the morning,
General Menou came to inform us that Bonaparte was waiting for us
on the beach. An hour after we had cleared the port, and at day- break*
we got under weigh with a north-east wind, which continuing to blow
from this quarter for two days, carried us out of the track of the
JSufriish cruisers.

Nothing could be more unexpected than our arrival in France, and
the news of it spread with the rapidity of lightning. Scarcely had
we displayed the flag of a commander in chief, when the shore was
covered with people, who exclaimed, Bonaparte ! in accents of most
intense desire: the public enthusiasm became uncontrolable, all
apprehensions of contagion were forgotten, and our two vessels were
surrounded by boats filled with men, whose only fear was lest they
should be deceived in their hopes of the arrival of Bonaparte. France
herself poured forth her thousands before him, who was destined
to restore her splendour, and already from her frontiers demanded
of him the revenge of Marengo. Our hero was borne in triumph to
Freius* and in an hour after had set out for Paris.

Delighted to become again my own master, I stole from the multi*
tude, and, for the first time since my leaving France forEgypt, enjoyed
the sweet satisfaction of being no longer crowded nor hurried. For-
merly I should have thought myself a traveller and stranger at Frejus,
but coming from Africa, I now seemed at home again, and one of the
citizens of this little town, with nothing more to do. I arose late, I
breakfasted at my full ease, I went to take a walk, visited the amphi-
theatre and the other ruins, looking with complacency at the frjgjte*
which had borne us, now lying at moorings in the harbour. Thus
terminates the journal of Mr. Denon.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BON Ar ARTE. Ift£

may be added, that the inhabitants, equally weary of
our residence with the Turks, were desirous of oar
departure.

The convention, being signed at EI-Arish, on the 24th
of January, 1800, was despatched, by Sir Sidney Smith,
to the British Court.

The French and-Italian journals which our plenipoten-
tiaries procured, gave us no intelligence of the arrival of
Bonaparte, and the news concerning our armies was far
from satisfactory.

As soon as Kleber was informed of the ratification of
Youssef-Pacha, and had taken all the dispositions neces-
sary to insure the execution of the treaty, be marched for
Cairo, when Desbix was appointed to convey the de-
spatches of the General-in-Chief to- the Directory, and
explain the motives which bad determined him to eva-
cuate Egypt. A commissary in ordinary and two commis-
saries of war were charged to accompany him to make
the necessary preparations in France for the reception of
the army on its debarkation, when the Cdmtnissary-in-
Chief named me to this service, a favour which I shall
never forget.

The news of the treaty with the Grand Vizir soon
spread throughout Egypt. The officers sold their horses ;
every one endeavoured to procure a little money, to fur-
nish himself with the articles indispensable for the route.
If Kleber had exceeded his powers in treating for the
evacuation of Egypt, he was sufficiently excused by the
transports of joy manifested throughout the army.

On the 20th of February I left Bulak with Generals
Desaix, Davoust, and Dugua, where we embarked ori
several dgerms, having with us nearly two hundred
wounded and maimed soldiers of the different corps of
the army.

Desaix was born at Ayat, in Auvergne, and was now
in bis thirty-third year ; his name had already been long
celebrated among the French, and respected and es-

Digitized by

Google

f 90 THE LIFE OF

teemed by the Apatriens. It were impossible to unite
wre mofarty to greater abilities, meekness to firmness
of character, or to possess more coolness in the greatest
dangers. Being a welHnstnieted obeerverj nothing .es-
caped his attention ; he liked to converse with arifieeva
and peasants whenever he met them. JIjs cpuptenaaoe
was prepossessing, his eyes exprapaive apd spirited, and
his conversation always animated, and often, fcrillia/at,
evinced a memory famished with the best store* of lite-
rature, and a solid and profound judgement

From many Desaix bad received the anrnawe of Ba-
yard, and he was truly worthy the title of tfee chevnj&er
without fear and withottf reproach* Be was easy of ao-
cess, bis reception always obliging, and he passionately
loved glory, for which he x abandoned every thing. His
admiration of Bonapajrte was real, and bia only fear in the
midst of the numerous obstacles which retarded oar am-*
yal in Franoe, was thajt Napoleon would leave him
nothing to do. Alas J that the blood of Desaix should
have bedewed the laurels of Marengo] ,

The pleasure of returning to' France, and the assurance
of performing oar voyage without molestation, being, in
execution of the 14th article of the convention, we were
famished with passports by the Grand Viap and Common
dore Sir Sidney South, who, for our greater security, per*
mitteci an English officer to accompany us..

We arrived ajt flosetta without accident, and encamped
upon )jhe sjnajl island which separate,* the two branchea
of the Nile, There Desaix left us jLo proceed by land U>
Alexandra, as, ojor zaarjpers had assured us that the con-
trary winds wonld last two days longer. In addition tQ
this, the sea was too rough, so that we dared not expose
ourselves to the passage of the Boghaae, which is always
dangerous when the waves rise upon the sands that
obstruct the mouth of the Nile.

Two days after our arrival at Rpsetta we left the river
and rowed towards Alexandria W^ing ine rock? a

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLSON A0NAPARTE. %ffj

Aboukir, and soon eame in Mgfct ef the Tbaaans, still
cruising before the port, bat wbiofa 4*4 not iaterapt the
communication* re-established by the convent***. .

Desaix wished to take advantage of. the oalm 4o pas*
the Beghane ef the port of Alexandria ; the fiaguuan
merchant brig, the Santa Maria delle Gram*, apd the
packet I/Etoiie, accordingly set sail on the 3d of Marah*
I was embarked on the Santa Maria, together with Ge»
neral Desaix and Messieurs Savary, Rapp, and Clement.

The Etoile, commanded by captain Roustan, aocom*
pan! ed as as a flag ef truce, and had on board General
Davoust. We were steered through the pass by Turkish
pilots, and soon spreading oar sails gained the main

Previous to the period when General Kleber concluded
the convention with Sir Sidpey Smith, he had forwarded
despatches to the French government, containing an ac+
count of the alarming situation of the army of Egypt
The packet which had these communications on board was
met and captured by an English cruiser, previous to
which the letters were attached to a ballet and thrown
overboard, but the cord ohanoing to break; the correspon*
dence rose to the surface, and was seized by the enemy.
These most important documents were forwarded by the
Captain to Admiral Keith, who commanded in the Medi-t
terranean, by whom they were instantly despatched to the
British government. , Thus was the real state of thq
French army in Egypt discovered, which differed so
widely from the statements made by Kleber to Sir Sidney
Smith, that the English ministry forwarded fresh orders
to that commander.

Desaix had scarcely set sail from Alexandria, when
the Theseus, under the orders of Commodore Sir Sidney
Smith, resumed the blockade of the port and closed aU the
communications. This measure was in consequence of
the dispositions taken by the court of London after read-?

Djgitized by

Google

igg THE LIFE OF

fog the intercepted despatches of Kleber. They believed
that they ought not to consent to the evacuation of
Egypt, bat on condition of the army surrendering
prisoner* of war. Admiral Lord Keith was charged to
inform Sir Sidney Smith of this new resolution, and he in
consequence addressed a letter to General Kleber, The
answer of the General-in-Chief to this revolting proposi-
tion will speedily be manifested, when Sir Sidney had to
regret that the fruits of an able and fortunate negociation,
which would have attached his name to history in an im-
portant political transaction, was thus annihilated in a
moment.

. Although the instructions, despatched by Admiral
Keith, destroyed or at least suspended the effect of the
convention of El-Arisb, the Grand Visir and Kleber con*
tinned faithful to the terms, persuaded that the court of
London would not persevere in its determinations. They
concerted together different provisionary measures, but
difficulties arose even from the effect of their mutual dis-
positions. During these discussions, the object of which
was to delay a rupture that would have been fatal to both
armies, Kleber, for the purpose of removing his uncer-
tainty, despatched Adjutant-general Cambyse and M.
Poussielgue to Admiral Lord Keith. They were charged
to procure a precise account of the reasons which had
induced the British cabinet to vacillate, and for this pur-
pose embarked, with the permission of Sir Sidney Smith,
in the frigate which had brought the despatches from
Lord Keith. They found the Admiral before Genoa,
occupied in seconding by sea the efforts of the Austrians
to seize upon that place, so valiantly defended by Mas*
sena. Lord Keith, to their great surprise, so far from
entering into any explanation, positively announced that
the evacuation of Egypt was about to take place without
any obstacle on his part, and that, on the contrary, he
was on the, point of expediting fresh instructions to Sic

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. i99

Sidney Smith to accelerate measures as much as possible.
Affairs indeed were changed, — the army of Yousaefi-
P*oha was conquered i

This unexpected alteration in the decisions of the Eng-
lish government was undoubtedly the effect of a corre-
spondence of Lord Elgin, then at Constantinople, and the
positive information which the cabinet of London ac-
quired from Sir Sidney Smith, who had without delay
despatched the convention signed at El-Arish. Thus, at
length, the French army, in virtue of this tardy rati-
fication, was permitted to quit Egypt, and return to
France.

During these contradictory resolutions, the Grand Vi-
zir ; master of Cathieh, Salehieb, Belbeis, Damietta,
part of the Delta, and Upper Egypt, evacuated in pursu-
ance of the treaty, was desirous of obliging the French
to quit Cairo, which he wanted to possess. Kleber,
however, who bad entirely committed himself to the dis-
cretion of the Turks by bis dangerous compliance with
the convention, refused to give up the only fortified
place which remained after Alexandria. This refusal
was notified to Youssef-Pacha, together with the determi-
nation of recommencing hostilities, should he persist in
the attempt. The Vizir, presuming that the French were
anable to resist the superiority of his forces, was obstinate,
when Kleber instantly decided to act, and placing the let*
ter of Lord Keith to the order of the day, he merely
added the following words, which I believe I have faith-
fully retained ; " Soldiers, we can answer such indignity
only by victory ; which itf at the end of our bayonets ; let
na march." The drum soon assembled to their colours
*mr animated soldiers, outraged in their honour, and prer
ferring a noble death to infamy. The plain ot Lqeonbbe
once more witnessed the forming of ojar battalions, which,
though weak jn .point of numbers, were still formidable
m account of their talour. Every thing was m conseT

Digitized by

Google

200 raft Lira of

qaenee prepared far a great action, wbiefc t<mM decide
the fate of Egypt

To appreciate the battle of Hetkipetis, it must be re-
narked, that Kleber, confident of the e&ecutroa of a
eonrention, intended to guarantee tbe advantages restrlt-
Mg from it, had bhnseif opened' Egypt to those who pre-
tended to chase him from its territories ; that the enenfy
Was at the gates of the capital ; and that, one day later, be
bad no other resource left than to retire upon Alexandria.
'Although his surprise was great, he saw iti an instant
how critical Was his situation, and his mind remained
calm in the midst of the dangers that threatened Writ.
There was only one path indicated by honour; and he
did not hesitate in adopting h. Elvery sentiment nnited to
increase the courage of his soldiers, whose hopes being
frustrated, they bad to punish bad faith, and avenge hr-
M%, otherwise to augment their misery ; nothing remained
lint the prospect of a grievous and dishonourable cap-
tivity. Kleber, glorying in the idea of a difficult victory,
communicated to the whole army the ardour by which
be frit inflamed. He recalled to mind the battle of
Mount Tbabor, and bow ineffectually a host of Irresolute
enemies bad attacked bis weak division, which was;
moreover, in want of ammunition. He remarked that a
small number ef brave men, accustomed to the dangers
of war, and inured by so many combats, tnigbi again
disperse this cloud of barbarians, w&o kne# not bCw
W manoeuvre or employ tbeit means.

Kleber, after taking all the precautions rtfggested by
bis prtadenee* le protect tbe French who could not follow
the army from the fury ef the htbabitani* of Gtiro, set
out » break of day from Laeoubbe, on tbe 20th of
Mtffeb* As an able and resolute1 General, be feK that
he dagbt not to safer tbe enemy to tfntieipattfhfan, but
thuriy direct tbe primary fApirlse, — that first spring
t*pe* the enerty *o formidable With Freticfc soldiers. By

Digitized by LjOOQIC

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 201

leaving lie Turks to approach the walls of Cairo he
would have exposed himself to be disturbed in 14s reot
bg the population of that capital, then restrained by terror,
hot which would have declared against him the moment
he was attacked in front by the Ottomans* Kleber,
therefore, marched directly against the enemy, his army
consisting of twelve or thirteen thousand men : that o£
the Grand Vizir, encamped near El Hanka, being more
than forty thousand strong, having a very numerous
oavalry; while the immense equipages of that army,
happily inexperienced,, covered the borders of the desert.
As soon as Toussef-Pacha had received intelligence of the
movement of Kleber, he quitted his camp and marched
upon Ifatarieh, a village situated near the ruins of ancient
Heliopolis* where the two unequal forces came to an
engagement. The Turkish cavalry at first attempted,
but in vain, to break our infantry and arrest its march,
bet a terrible fire of musketry kept it in awe, and obliged
it to recede. A0er this first success the infantry charged
the enemy's liues, already broken by the artillery — when
the aflair was quickly decided. The Grand Vizir wished
to fall back upon his camp, but seeing that, the French
army by a, flank movement was about to cut him off from.
th« inhabited country, and drive b«n into the desert, he
determined to make a retrograde movement, which re-
trofit proved a complete sanguinary rout»v The whole of
the Turkish actillery and the greater part of their equi-
pages fell into the hands of the victors, whose loss was
wary inconstdeaeble compared with that of the enemi-
The Grand Vixir o»k tbe contrary lost, en that day so fatjaj
to hi* arms, eight, thousand men in. killed or wounded,
without rentaning those who perished in. the desert from
fatigue and wsnt.

Agprad Bey, posted, with, six handtisdMemetokes., upon
a height which o**ft-teeke4 tbe field of baUle, w*s with
nem of the, defeat of tbe Qsmanli*. He had informed
the Geaere^iorCbbf that he should mk take pert in* Us*

tol. ii.— 21. d. d

Digitized by

Google

202 THE LIFE OF

action, and "he kept his word. This Bey, of whom the
Ottoman court complained, had cause to fear the re-esta-
blishment of the authority of the Grand Signor in Egypt.
He did not dissemble, that the Sublime Port had more
than one infidelity to punish, and more than one usurped
right to reclaim. The battle of Heliopolis, in proving
to Afurad-Bey the immense superiority of the French
army, made him feel, on the other hand, how chimerical
was the hope of his struggles against it. This reflection
determined him, as was afterwards seen, to propose, an
arrangement to Kleber, which was agreed upon.

Whilst Kleber was chasing before him the terrified
cohorts of the Grand Vizir, Nazouf-Pacha, who had
been separated in the battle with a body of from six
to eight thousand men, threw himself between Bolak
and- Cairo. The Turks made a horrible massacre of
all the * French whom they met, together with a great
number of Cophts and Greeks, accused of having shown
an attachment to our army. This movement, inspired by
danger, determined the inhabitants of Cairo to rise, and
terrified the weak garrison that remained in the surround-
ing forts. They believed the army totally destroyed,
and the joy which they evinced on the return of Kleber
can only be compared to that which is felt on passing from
imminent danger to a state of the most perfect security.

Kleber, .after having reconquered Egypt by this splen-
did and complete success, gave no repose to the Otto-
man army, which had not yet passed the desert of Cathieh.
Toussef-Pacha did not stop till he arrived at Gaza,
where he profited by the respite accorded him, to occupy
himself with the re-orginization of his army. The French
at length relieved from the mob of , barbarians they
had expelled, returned conquerors to the capital of
Egypt. The army was pressed by famine during many
days of its march, and the General-in-Chief, *UU more
disturbed on account of what might have passed during
his absence, burned with impatience to re-enter Cairo.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 203

What was Kleber's astonishment on bis arrival before
the eity (March 27th,) to see upwards of twenty thousand
men, composed equally of Turks, under the orders of
Nasouf-Pacha, of Arabs, of Fellahs, and of the revolted
inhabitants, defending Cairo and Bulak. His situation
was critical ; it did not, however, destroy his constancy ;
he first caused Bulak to be carried by main force by
general Belli ard, and then ordered an attack upon the
ntrepchments which closed the entrances to Cairo ; which
effort, however, proved unsuccessful, and cost a, number
of men. The General at length decided on devoting the
time necessary to form a regular siege, when batteries
and mortars were established, which did such damage to
the oity that the inhabitants determined to capitulate.
On the 21st of April, more than a month after the battle
of Heliopolis, Kleber re-entered Cairo, after having
granted to the detachments .of the Ottoman army, which
remained in the city, a free passage into Syria.* By (his
submission of the inhabitants, which terminated the labo-
rious exploits of the army, Kleber again became peace-
able master of Egypt, with the exception of a province
ceded by treaty, to Murad-Bey, who, in exchange, bound
himself to observe a faithful peace, and pay an annual
tribute. But to return.

As soon as Desaix had received his passports from

* Previous to the final evacution of Cairo, an action having taken
place, which proved unfavourable to the French, a* cannon ball car-
ried off the thigh of General Lanusse, who had uniformly behaved
with the most astonishing heroism, and the accident^ which Jie sur-
vived only eight days, was universally lamented by his brother officers
and soldiers. The surgeon in chief; Larry, repaired to Alexandria
to amputate the limb, but the general refused to submit to the
operation* All his friends were assembled, and the experienced
surgeon said, that he would be answerable for success ; adding, it
would not pat the life of the wounded general to the least hazard, but
that without it there was no possibility of saving him. Fatigued, at
length, by the solicitation of his friends, " No?* said Lanusse, " I
will not survive that dishonourable day 1"

Digitized by

Google

204 TI1E UPE OF

Lord Keith, be re-embarked in his former vessel, and
we quitted Leghorn with unspeakable joy; las nothing
now would oppose our return to France, we entered the.

- road of Toulon (April 24th), having been absent two
years wanting twenty-six days.

We passed twenty-five days at the Lasarretto to per-
form quarantine, during which time we received many
visits and letters from our friends; among which De-
'saix got one from Bonaparte, at which he was much
affected. The First Consul described the miseries that
accompany greatness, and engaged Desaxx to repair
to him immediately ; who overcome by the sad and moving
tone of the letter, said to us/ " He I* covered with glory,
tut ho i* not happy" And afterwards, reading in the
journals the march of the army of reserve, he exclaimed,
" He witt leave us nothing to do."

On the 19th of May, we finished our quarantine— two
days afterwards we were at Marseilles, and Desaix from
thence set out for Italy.

The conditions of the treaty for the evacuation of
Egypt were, that the French should embark within three
1 months, that they should be permitted to return to Prance
with all their arms and baggage, and that the Turks
should provide them with money, and supply them with
necessaries during their stay in Egypt and voyage to
Europe.

In the course of the above period, the brave and able
General Kleber became the victim of assassination, for
which act the murderer was impaled alive, and in con-
sequence the chief command devolved upon General
Menou, under whose directions the departure of the trench
army was effected.

In order to delineate in few words the privations and
difficulties to which the remnants of the celebrated army
of Egypt was reduced, it will be sufficient to insert the

* following extract from a letter despatched by Menou to

Digitized by

Google

t NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 206

his brother the Mayor of Boufai, with which we shall
terminate the account of the Egyptian campaign under
Napoleon Bonaparte.

" .The fortune of war has turned against us ; attacked
by forty thousand English, Osmanlis, and Sepoys of India
on the land side ; by upwards ef one hundred ships of
war, on the sea ; a prey to hunger, thirst, and diseases
of every description ; having no longer the necessary
medical remedies for the hospitals} unable 'to reckon
more than eighteen hundred men capable of bearing arms,
and nearly the whole afflicted by «<?urvy; having con-
seined alt the horses, asses, and camels which remained
in Alexandria ; we were under the necessity of capitu-
lating, aflet bevitag fonght with desperation. By land eighty
pieces df cannon, mortars, and howitzers, and upwards
of two thousand pieces of artillery from the sea, battered
us in all directions, and must have reduced us to ashes ;
the siege having continued for «fat months. If we have
been overpowered by the largest force England ever
yet collected for a maritime expedition, we have at all
events preserved our honour. 1 shall not convey back
to France a tingle soldier who hoe not been wounded, and
among them there are many who can display Jif teen honour-
able scars"

Digitized by

Google

206 THE LIFE OF

CHAP. VII.

Napoleon lands at Frejus— Rapacity of Talleyrand Perigord,
Ex-Bishop of Autun— Bonaparte's Reception at Lyons-
Critical Situation of the French Republic -Napoleon's ifr-
rival at Paris -Machinations with Sieyes and Duces, the
Directors — Napoleon's Privacy— The Eighteenth Bru-
maire— Decree adjourning the Meeting of the Assemblies to
St. Cloud—Proclamation of Fouche, Minuter of Police—
Bo* apa»rte inarches Ten Thousand Men to the Tuileries—
Resignation demanded ofBarras—The Luxembourg invested
—Barras yields up his Authority -Bonaparte's Address
to the Secretary Botot— Assembly of the Council of Five
Hundred— The Nineteenth Brumaire— Meeting of the As-
sembly in the Orangerie, at St. Cloud— Napoleon's Speech
to the Council— Stormy Proceedings in the Assembly of Five
Hundred — Perilous Situation of Lucien Bonaparte — Napo-
leon wounded in the cheek — The President's Address to the .
Soldiers— An armed Force enters the Council of Five Hun-
dred— The Members are expulsed — Proceedings of the
Council of Ancients— Project of a New Form of Govern-
ment—Nomination of Sieyes, Ducos, and Bonaparte as
Consuls- Address to the French Nation - Napoleon's Pro-
clamation respecting the Transactions of the Nineteenth
Brumaire— zThe Three Consuls approved by the Council of*
Ancients — Address of the Consuls to the French People.

It does not appear that any circumstance of peculiar no-
toriety attended the voyage of Bonaparte from Egypt to
Europe; he conversed with the companions of his destiny,
and amused himself, while on ship board, in studying geo-
metry, and, upon some occasions, is said to have attended

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. J07

to ohymisjtry. Haying gained the codM of Corsica, his
native island, a storm obliged the vessel to enter the port
of Ajacoio, where the reception he met with from his
countrymen was precisely such as the eclat of his victo-
ries was calculated to ensure. At Corsica he learned the
extent of the calamities France had suffered, and then set
sail for the French coast, of which he was within sight,
when the seamen discovered some English ships, amount-
ing to seven sail. The topmasts of the French were
lowered with a view to escape observation, and it was
proposed to return to Corsica ;~but Bonaparte assumed
the command, and insisted upon making for the Coast of
Provence, where he arrived safe, in the midst of an asto-
nished multitude, who refused to credit the fact upon the
mere hoisting of his flag at the mast-bead, and were only,
convinced of the reality, when they -beheld him in the
midst ' of surrounding crowds. When the Directory at
Paris were informed that Bonaparte had landed at Frejus,
from Egypt, they made known the General's arrival to. the
Two Councils, who received the message with cries of
Vive la Rtpublique ! The General remained at Frejus only
one hour, while a carriage was procured to transport him
to Paris, and he arrived at the capital on the 16th of
October, being hailed on every side, during his journey,
with the cry of " Peace ! Peace !" as if the nation sighed
for that blessing only, and expected it at bis hands alone.

It is a peculiarity in the history of this extraordinary
character, that a great variety of circumstances have
always combined to promote his* interest upon occasions
when it is extremely probable that his own intrinsic merit
would have produced him little or no advantage.

Paris, under the Directory, had become the centre of
intrigues, the most unprincipled and corrupt, and the fear
tures of stern republican justice degenerated into smiles
of sycophancy. Monsieur Talleyrand Perigord, ex-bishop
of Autun, evinced a strong predilection for the re-esta-
blishment of priestly government, «*d aeon attached to

Digitized by

Google

308 THE LIFE OF

bimself a private synod of his ancient friends* who de-
monstrated a grateful willingness* to pay before-hand Ike
services be was about to render tfaena.*

Tbe emigrant priests and nobles, who bad, in vain,
sued, in the name of justice,, for permission to return to

* The immense turns wfaick this minister has plundered or extorted
have certainly made him one of the wealthiest, if not the richest man
in Europe. His expenses have always been great, even extravagant ;
but much beneath half the interest arising from an enormous capital,
deposited under several names in the French, as well as in all foceign
funds.

By the different negotiations, intrigues, indemnities, loans, jobbings,
treaties, armistices, conventions, &c. up to Midsummer, 18t>2, Talley-
rand was said, to have indemnified himself with the following sums :
in 1T97, sixteen millions three hundred and fifty thousand francs; in
1798, eleven millions one hundred and fifty thousand; in 1799, eight
millions eight hundred thousand ; in 1800, twenty millions fifty thou-
sand; in 1801, thirty-three millions three hundred thousand; in 1802,
thirteen millions nine hundred tlwusand.

Thus did he extort, during a period of five years, upwards of four
millions sterling, from princes and subjects ; by taking advantage of that
information which his official station procured him, to lay all people and
every class under contribution, either directly, by forced loans, or in-
directly, by speculation in the public funds. Tnis was a new system
of plunder, not previously mentioned in history ; even in the annals
which record the corruption of eastern satraps,, or of Turkish viaiert
and pachas.

From the 8£df of September, 19GS, to the 82d of September* 1804,
'he is said to have laid out in the purchase of estates in. various part* of
Europe, twenty mill ions six hundred and sixty-five thousand francs ;, for
his seraglio, establishments in town and country, £c four millions
t«o hundred and ninety-three thousand three btmd&ed.ffancs. His
peculations, since the above period, may easily be guessed from this

Secimen. Napoleon often checked, but found him unmanageable,
e is one of the party alluded to in the '< Vo«e from $fc {Mesa,"
who shared the plunder of the money which Napoleon received a&a
dowry with his wife, the Empress Marie Louise.
In comparison with former French ministers, Tafeyeaad possessed
1 the financial abilities of a Sully, the capacity and duplicity of a Ri-
chelieu, the cunning and cupidity of a Mazarin, the commercial know-
ledge ii a Col beit, the insensibility, end cruelty of a Leave*, the
profligacy and depravity of a Pubou4 the method and peraicnty of
Fleury, the penetration of a Choiseul, the suppleness of a Maurepas,
and the activity of a Yergennea. Though, $om haughtiness, he
affected to depend upon his secretaries and wferjars for Uansa^ twtfce
chief business of his office, nothing escaped his attention. In short,
he> with great facility, decided in a few hours, what had puzzled the
comprehension of other* fpr a wee**

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 209

their country, now found the way smoothed by the cupi-
dity of the oily-tongued minister and his speculating
masters. The sufferings which these unfortunate persona
had borne, had reduced many of them to very humiliating
circumstances, and though great numbers received small
pensions from the governments under which they had
taken refuge, it nevertheless became desirable to return
home upon any terms. Numbers took measures for turn-
ing the vices of the government to their own account, and
the proper application of money procured the erasure of
their names from the list of emigrants.

Napoleon having disembarked at Frejus, proceeded to
Lyons, where he lodged at the superb mansion of the an-
cient fraternity of Celestius. No sooner was the arrival
of this extraordinary character rendered public, when
acclamations of joy were heard in every direction, public
festivities took place, and at night there" was a brilliant
illumination throughout the city. On the ensuing day the
several constituted authorities, being given to understand
that the General rose at an early hour, presented them-
selves before him, when the mayor, who was at their head,
having prepared an harangue for the occasion, was on the
point of delivering his speech. Bonaparte, however,
scarcely allowing him time to open his mouth, addressed
the assembly iu the following terms : —

"Gentlemen,
"I was given to understand, that France groaned under
an arbitrary government, and I therefore did not hesitate
to abandon my army in Egypt, consisting of forty-six
thousand men, that I might come and strike a blow here.
1 am now going hence ; but in a few days, if you think fit
to wait upon me, I shall then be at leisure to hear you/'

, At this period France was in the most precarious situa-
tion ; throughout the southern and western departments
insurrections blazed with uncontrolled fury : clubs of jaco-
vol. IK— 21. k e

i

Digitized by

Google

2tO XIIRWFBOT

Vh*, ettabliifaei) » the capita!* thundered forth it*
language of anarchy; and Generai Jourdao, at this idea*
tical orisis, had. proposed a decree in the Council. of Fin*
Hnndred, Whereby: the country should againi be proclaiined
" ia a state of danger/' It was at that juaotiue Napto
lean made his unexpected appearance at Pari*.
; Tba news flew, round the city with the rapidity i>f lighjti
ntng; and the Parisians eagerly thronged to beheld the
H Conqueror of Egypt:" they surrounded him, and each
seemed. more desirous- than the oilier of welcoming hi*
return. His manners appeared more affable then previ-
ous to his quitting France : he spoke freely to the people,
and shook several soldiers. by .the hand who had served
with him in Italy. Hta complexion, bronzed by the
Egyptian sua, and his hair, cut short and without powder*
gave -him an appearance of greater manliness and strength
than were observable previous to bis leaving Europe. Ho
was oot of uniform, and. wore a gray riding-coat, with a
silk scarf over his shoulder suspending a Turkish sabre^
He1 pained along, the courts and streets leading to the
Luxembourg amidst the acclamations of the populacer
and immediately had a private audience of the Directory.
» Sieyesy the Director, bad long contemplated the odnse-
qoences likely to result from the imbecility of th* Govern-",
ment, the energy of the factions, and the anarchy of the*
people ; he saw, that if means were not adopted to render
the executive power sufficiently strong to be feared, it
wefaU not be respected. He despised each of bis col-
leagues, only one of whoin had his confidence : namely,;
Roger Duces, who looked up to Sieyes as an oracle; and>
attached himself to him, becaose he had sufficient foresight
to: percieve,. that,, if the Directory fell, Sieyes alone was-
capabie of saving himself from. the contempt of the peo* J
pie: to the latter, therefore Ducos had allied his own
fortune, and thus became the disciple of his brother
Director. ' .
Sieyes had disclosed to Ducos bis intention of calling*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE- ^fj

in Hie aid it one of the geitaral*, in order to retieue the
flfepublic and theipsetves fey. overthrowing the Direotory^
Bud he was therefore secretly pleased at this popufar
demonstration of joy, on the *ai<ri?ftl ef its favourite,
which alarmed the other Director*; he welcomed Bene*
Iparte to bis apartments in theLuirfethbout'g, disclosed tt
Urn his project and required 'his aid. In consequence of
this preliminary step many secret conferences were heW,
»t which the Directors Sieyes* Roger Duces, Talleyrand,
Foobb6, Voteey, Reftdeter, ttoinhard, and Bonaparte,
.with his toothers Lfrcienand Joseph, were preset: few
others of any consequence Were entrusted with • the oW
spiraoy; those, boweYer, who Were engaged, managed
their confidence with thegroatest discretion* Theyoteateil
prions rumours; and, among others, spread abroad that
4 new plan of government was forming for the Republic*
Thus a change was generally tdtked of amongst the
people, without any one 'knowing •fhwn, Whence it whs id
proceed, or when it would take effect-: the pfeblic ntintf
Was, however, thus j>repared /or a change, and all that
appeared necessary to render it palatable* to the Pari-
sians was the destruction of the Directory. A few of
die Council of Ancients and. of the Council of Five Hon*
drcd weio ako in the secret. : . * »

- Bonaparte appeared very Kttte in pubKo ; he seethed
to court seclusion, and shun the gaee of the carious and
the idle, declining also the visits of those Who ilaid nd
teal business to transact : eatery body talked *ef hfan,
but of those who so conversed very few knew any thing
about bim. He was busied in attaching: to himself men
ef talents and enterprise, Wtofce iritewfct it Was to eon-*
tinne silent, in order that their plans might be secure
in their operation.

Sieyes and Dieos acted their parts in -a very natural
way, and in a manner well calculated to Ml their brother
directors in security, whom tftey prevailed upon to ii*

Digitized by

Google

gig THE LIFE OF

<vile General* Bonaparte and Moreau to a public dianer.
,A. grand entertainment was, accordingly, given, by the
jDirectory and toe Councils, to those . generals and their
friends, in the Temple of Victory (the church of St Sal*
pice). The company consisting of nearly eight hundred
persons, including most of the grand public functionaries
of the Republic. The leading men of the different factions
were assembled at this feast, which seemed intended for
the purpose of .softening their personal dislikes, by rendering
Jiiem social and acquainted with each other* . The toast
given by the* President of the Directory was " Peace!"
suad that by Bonaparte, " A union of all parties :" never-*
less, it was evident, (his- was a mere dinner of ceremony ;
the whole company viewed each other with distrust; there
waa neither tnirth nqr confidence; and though the meet*
jng pretended to effect a union of parties, it seemed only
calculated to produce disunion. Bonaparte quitted the
room after a few toasts were given ; and the whole cere*
mony did not last three hours.

The company separated, each in mutual distrust of
the intentions of the other, and without having felt any
desire of subduing their individual animosities/ or of
repressing their ambitious pretensions. The least id*
dined of any of the festive band to forego his designs
W*s Bonaparte; for the very evening of the day on
Which he gave " A union of all parties,'' as a toast, he
met his own associates in secret, at the house of M. le
JHercier, President of the Council of Ancients, finally
to determine on those measures which had been agreed
upon, and to assign to each individual the part he was
destined to perform in the projected conspiracy against
the Directory. <

The Committee of Inspectors belonging to the Council ,
of Ancients, at five- o'clock on the morning of the 18th
Brumaire, (the 9th of November, 1799,) sent message*
in- one hundred and fifty member* of that body, who had

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 213

been Befooled for that purpose by Bonaparte and fan*
adherents, but of whom very few were acquainted with
the conspiracy — they were required to assemble at eight
o'clock in the Tuileries. When they met, it appeared
that the most violent of the Jacobins, in number about
a hundred, were not assembled, for no summonses hav-
ing been sent they were ignorant of the meeting.

Comet, Reporter of the Committee, opened the meet* -
i»g with a speech, in which he forpibly detailed the dan-
gers to wbioh the Republic was subjected, and the de-
signs of the factious ; and ended with proposing, that
the Assembly, according to the 102d and 103d articles
of the constitution, should adjourn to St. Cloud ; that
General Bonaparte should be charged to put the decree
in execution ; for which purpose, he should be appointed
commander of all the forces in Paris, as well as of the
troops of the assemblies, and the National Guard. The
decree was passed by a great majority.

" This measure (said- the proclamation, that was imme-
diately issued) has been adopted by the Council of An-
cients, in order to repress the factions who pretend to
enslave the national representation, and to restore internal
peace.

" Th& plan is intended in order to procure external
peace, which your long sacrifices and humanity demand.
This constitutional measure has no other aim but the
safety, and the prosperity, of all. Such an object shall be
accomplished.

" And you, inhabitants of Paris, remain tranquil ; in
a short time the Legislature will return to your city.

" Frenchmen {"subsequent events will soon prove whe-
ther the Legislature may be entrusted with the honourable
task <of toiling for your happiness.

" Long live the people! by and with whom the com-
monwealth exists." -

Bonaparte immediately appeared at the bar, attended,
by Generals Bertbier, Moreau, Lefebvre, Macdonald, und

Digitized by

Google

214 THE ilFE Off

ethers. Being informed by the President, ef bis appoint*
inert t, be spoke as follows t —

" Clfi^BN Rb*RBSB9TA.T1VBB!

** The Republic was perishing— <you knbw this, and
your decree has saved .It Woe be to those who wish
for anarchy, whoever they May be! aided by Gen^rtfU
Berthier, Lefebvre, and nil «y <br*TO companions in
arm*, I stall arrest their course. Let *s not ««efc in the
past for examples to justify the present; tfinoe nothing
fn history resembles the conclusion^ ef the eighteenth een-
tary, and nothing ill that roseaibtai the present metoent. -

u Tour wisdom bate issued (his decree— our arms shall
execute it. We demand a Republic founded on a just
basis, on true liberty , on civil liberty and national repre*
dentation, and we will have it, Wfe will have it— «I swear
it — I swear it in »y own name, and in the names of wf
brave comrades.''

Lively applauses proceeded from the tribunes, the Pre-
sident called them to order, and the Council became
tranquil when the President Mid :-r -

" Gbnekal r
- w The Council of Ancients receives your oath ;,thenq
Is no doubt of your sincerity, and aeal for action. He
who never promised victories to the ^otfntry in vain, can*
not fail to fulfil his new engagements to serve her with
fidelity." .1

Garat requested to be heard ; but the President Ob-
served, that after the decree which the council had passed,
there could be no discussion, either in Paris or elsewhere/
before the next day at nbofc; and the sitting was dis-
solved, amidst loud cries of " Long live the Republic !'*
* Long live the Constitution of the Thiirf Year !M

Bonaparte immediately issued a proclamation toJIhcJ

Digitized by

Google

NAPOI/^N BONAPARTE. ftlfi

national gaard and. the regular forces/ which bad been
prepared some time before the circumstances occurred
which gave rise to the necessity of their being, prouul*
gated. — They bad lain in the bureaus of the new revolt
tionisU until tbe day when they were either to be of utility,
or npt, when* if the proposed revolution was effected, they
were to be circulated amongst the troops,. and read. by.
ajl/the Parisians ; or in oase the measures had not sue-
oeeded, they would have been committed to the flames.
The proclamations were for the events,, and. the events*
for the proclamations ; and scarcely had the events oc~
enrred before the walls of Paris were placarded with- the'
proclamations! which the good citizens, always fond of
novelty, flocked in crowds to peruse.

These documents were immediately followed by another
proclamation from the Minister of. the General Police;
Foucbe, dated also the 18th Brumaire, and another from;
the central administration of Paris, wherein, after recount-
ing the disorders that reipped tbropghout the country,
and th^t peace could aiope tend to: heal public cala--
mities* the document concluded thus :

" General Bonaparte, upon whose energetic measures*
every soldier and citizen may jq&tly confide, is entrusted
with the guardianship of your safety ajfed that ;of tbe legis-
lature at this awful crisis : you will therefore behold him
with additional pleasure, acquiring to himself, new glory/
by contributing to the welfare of tbe people at large.

This proclamation was signed by the celebrated banker,
Lecouteub^Ca*telen, president, and by Real, the com*
mpsary. . •

On the instant that the decree of the Council of An*,
ciqnts had passed, Bonaparte marched ten thousand:
troops to the Tuileries* and guarded every avenue so
effectually, .that, m epe. was permitted to pass either into
the court*, the garden* or within the walls of the palace*
He had previously formed all his dispositions, and ha*
raegued his troop? in the great court, while three of ..the*

Digitized by

Google

21(J THE LIFE OF

directors and all the rest of Paris were completely ignorant
of what was going forward, until the issuing of his proclama-
tions. The directors, Sieyes and Roger Dacos, being both
hi the secret, waited in silence the result of the meeting.
Sieyes was walking in the garden of the Luxembourg, and
Ducos continued in his own apartments, when they were
informed of what had transpired, upon which they imme-
diately proceeded to the Tuileries, and joined the two
committees of inspection, the generals, and the rest of the
military, who were in deliberation upon the measures re-
quisite to be taken for putting the decree of the Council
of Ancients into execution.

The Director .Barras had been desired to give in his
resignation very early in the morning, and the lady
(Madame Bonaparte) through whom the request came,
was empowered to offer him any pecuniary assistance he
might require ; he at first appeared to be violently irri-
tated, but in a little time became more calm, and acknow-
ledged that the government required some vigorous indi-

k vidua! at its head, as it was impossible it could go on
with five people, who had no confidence in each other ;
he, notwithstanding, refused to send in his resignation.
Gohier, who was that morning to have breakfasted with

- Bonaparte, felt infinitely astonished, on rising, to find
what had passed, and particularly at the decree for trans-
ferring the Assemblies to St. Cloud : he went, however,
into the audience chamber of the Directory, and sent for
bis colleagues. Moulins, who was equally surprised,
joined him. immediately ; but they were both still more

" confounded, when they heard that Sieyes was gone to
to the Tuileries ; and on sending for Ducos, they found
he was there also: Barras was summoned next, but he
refused to attend. Gohier sent immediately for La

• Garde, the Secretary-General, and ordered him to re-
gister a decree, which he dictated, but the latter answered,
° That as two members-could not constitute a majority of
the Directory, it was impossible for him to act as he re-

Digitized by

Google

V
NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 217

quested." Mouttns became extremely agitated, and pifo- . '
posed immediately to send a guard to invest the boose of
Bonaparte and keep him prisoner ; bat he was told, that
it would he impossible, as every soldier then in Paris was
under Bonaparte's command. General Lefebvre was
requested to attend : bat he confirmed what they had
before heard, and said, '* That, as he was under the orders
of Bonaparte, he could not march a single man without
% bis permission." They then despaired of retaining their
power ; and in a few minutes the Luxembourg was in-
vested by a strong guard, sent thither by Bonaparte.

By the Constitution it was requisite that the act for •
transferring the Assemblies to St. Cloud should be signed
by a majority of the Directory ; and Gohier, impelled by
that curiosity and indecision that characterizes weakness,
went to the Toilleries and added his name to those of
Sieyes and Ducos. Unwilling, however, to relinquish his
dignity, be repented of what he had done ; and when the
great seal of state, which, as president, be possessed, was
demanded of him, he refused to give it up. On iris return
to the Luxembourg a strong guard was immediately ap-
pointed over him, and be, in consequence, remained a
prisoner in the Directorial Palace.

Moulins was so overpowered by fear that he jumped
out ef a window which looked into the garden, and se-
creted himself anting the bushes till he could get quietly
away : and he was deemed of so little consequence that
ne one attempted to look after him.

At noon Banras sent his resignation to Bonaparte, by
his secretary, Botot. The Ex-director remained in a car-
riage near the Tuitleries till his emissary returned with
the result of fans message. Bonaparte was in the apart-
ment of the Inspectors when Botot desired to speak with
him : he was introduced by Coortois, and having given
the paper to the General, kkqtfhed, in a low voice, what
Barras bad to expect from him. " TeH that man," said
Bttaparte, " that I desire to hear no more of him, and

vol-, ii.— 22. f f

Digitized by

Google

218 THE LIFE OF

that I wi|I cause the authority I am intrusted with to be,
respected." Then, raising his voice load enough to be
heard even by those who were in the. antichamber, be thus
continued to address the astonished Secretary: "What
hare you done with the country which I left 40 flourish*
ing? you was at peace, and I find yon at war : I left yon.
victory, and I witpess defeat: you were conquerors/ and.
now the enemy is passing our frontiers : I left yon .the .
treasures of Italy, and I find nothing but oppression and
poverty. Where are the hundred thousand heroes, my
companions in arms, whom I covered with glory ? what is
become of them ? alas ! they are no more ! This state of
things cannot last long, in three years it will end in des-
potism; but we are far a Republic, founded on the bam
of equality, civil liberty, and political toleration. If you :
believe the assertions of the factious, we are the enemies of
the Republic ; we, who have strengthened jt by our labours, .
and cemented it by our blood ! but we wish for no. better
patriots than the brave men who havesuffered in itf service."

This harangue was highly applauded, and Botot retired
in confusion, to acquaiut Barras with what bad passed.
The latter obtained leave to retire to his superb estate
of Gros Bow, and a party of horse attended him thither
as a guard of safety.

During this time the Council of Five Hundred had as- .
sembled, overcome by distrust and fear, not knowing
upon which of their colleagues they were to rely, rand
dreading the treachery of some whom they had no ground ,
even to suspect These alarms had been occasioned by
the decree of the Council of Ancients and the extraor-
dinary events of the morning : not knowing the causes
from whenpe those occurrences had originated, they were
fluctuating between the conjecture and expectation which .
vague and .contradictory rumours had excited, as the
President, Lucien Bonaparte, entered the hall, when
eagerness was depicted in most of their countenances,
whilst he took his seat. From him they expected an

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. ^ %IQ

authentic account of the proceedings of the morning and
the objects to which they were directed. Lacien Bona-
•parte had been chosen their President some days before ;
and it was only known to a very few of the Members, who
had .assisted in procuring his appointment, that it was a
measure effected by the management and intrigue of the
new party, in order to assist their designs upon the Go-
vernment. ,

To Lacien, therefore, the brother of General Bona- '
parte, every eye was turned. — The prods verbal was
read, and all were eager to speak. The President perused
the deoree from the Council of Ancients, which removed
the Legislative Body to the palace of St. Cloud. A vio-
lent clamour instantly arose : Lucien declared the sitting
dissolved, amidst a strong opposition, and he immedi-
ately quitted the hall with several of the members, who
were attached to the new order of things. -

During the period occupied by these events, atid
throughout the same night, Bonaparte with the other
generals and public men, having Abbe Sieyes at their
head, were indefatigable occupied in preparing and ar-
ranging the business that was to be transacted the fol-
lowing day. The Directory was at an end : Barras had
reined in exile ; Gobier and Moulins remained prisoner*
at the Luxembourg, while the remaining Directors, Sieyes
and Ducos, were strenuously pursuing measures to aoce-
Jerate the projected overthrow; and while. these trans-
actions were taking place, parties of horse and foot sol-
diers paraded every street and square of the French
metropolis.

The nineteenth Brumaire (November the tenth, 1790)
teemed with most important events ; the chateau of Saint
Cloud was invested by troops ere the earliest dawn of
.day, where, according to the deoree of the Council of
Ancients, that body, together with the Council of Five
Hundred, had convened their sittings at noon, by which
hour a great "portion of the members bad assembled:

Digitized by

Google

220 THE LIFE OF

As precautious had been taken to bate every avenue*
strictly guarded, tbe Deputies could net paw withonft
shewing their medah, so that only a few other indivisjoala,
who had tickets, were permitted to enter. The Picture
Gallery was appointed for the Council of Ancients, and
the Orangerie for the Council of Five Hundred ; bnt tbe
sittings, wbiob had been appointed for twelve, did net
take place till two o'clock, owing to the preparations of
the workmen not being completed*

The debates were opened in the Council of Five Hun-
dred by a speech from Gaudin, proposing a committee of
seven members, to take into consideration the best means
of providing for the public safety. It was expected that
this motion would have been immediately carried ; bat
scarcely bad it been suggested, when several members of
the Jacobin party darted forward into the tribune, all
eager to be heard. The cry of " Dawn with dictators !"
became general : others exclaimed, " The Constitution
or death ! we are not afraid of bayonets, we will die at
ear post?" while some proposed that every member
sbonU take a fresh oath to preserve the Constitution*
The members of the opposite party were so maoh thrown
off their guard, that the cry of " Long live the Coaatitn*
tioa J" became general! and the motion for taking the oath
was agreed to. This was a great victory for the Jacobins,
and it gave them time, which was all they wanted. The
ceremony of renewing the oath occupied two hours,
wbioh being terminated, various propositions were offered
and discussed amidst great confusion. At length seme
motions were proposed and adopted, totally opposite to
tbe intentions of these who had procured the adjourn-
ment of tbe meeting to St. Cloud.

A letter was now brought in, addressed to tbe Council:
it was opened by the President, who announced that it
came from Barras. On being read, it made known his
resignation, bat was couched in snob guarded and ambi*
goons teems as seemed to intimate a desire to be em-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPAUTE 221

ployed in the new Qovcrnmea t» This letter gave rite
to m violent debate, on the question— whether the assem*
My should proceed to the election of a nctf Director t
Much of the confusion arose from the members who were
well disposed towards a change of government, but who
had repaired to the Assembly totally ignorant of what was
intended by Bonaparte. They bad been easily induced
to listen to the extravagant reports circulated by the J a*
oobins, who produced all the confusion which had arisen.
The danger became imminent, and the prevention of a
oivil war required that some vigorous measures should be
adopted to complete the revolution. Bonaparte, being
made acquainted with these tumultuous discussions, be-
came violently agitated, and hastened to the Council of
Ancients ; having previously deposited his arms in the anti-
ebamber, he entered the Assembly, and then requested
permission to address the sitting; When leave being
granted, the following were the most prominent features
of Bonaparte's celebrated harangue upon that occasion.

" They talk of anew Cmsar, of anew Cromwell ; a re*
port is spread that I am desirous of establishing a military
government. Had I been anxiouB to oppress the cause
of liberty, to usurp the supreme authority, I should not
have been obedient to your orders; it would not have been
necessary for me to receive such authority from the
senate.'9

" The country does not boast a more zealous defender
than myself, my devotion has been entire for the execu-
tion of its orders} but it is on you alone that its salvation
depends, for there is no longer a directory ; four of the
magistrates, constituting a part of that body, have given
in their dismissions ; dangers are pressing ; the evil in-
creases :"

44 As to the constitution, is it your wish to invoke it ?
What does it now present, but a heap of ruins ? has it not
been successively the sport of ail factions? Did you
not trample it under foot on the 18th Fruotidor ; on the

Digitized by

Google

222 THE LtFE OF

22d Floreal, as well as on the 28th Prairial? The

constitution ! Is it not under that name that all tyran-
nical measures have been organized since its existence ?
What guarantee can it now give ? . Is not its insufficiency
manifest, by the countless outrages committed against it
by those very jmen who- now plight towards it their faith,
in derision? All the rights of the people have befen
shamefully violated ; to re-establish them upon a firm basis
is now the task, in order to consolidate for France, liberty,
and the republic."

"I declare to yon that the moment the danger is over,
I will resign the command which has been vested in roe ;
I will only be, in.respect to the magistracy named by you,
. thef arm that shall support it."

The firm and severe aspect of Bonaparte, as well as the
importance of events on the point of arriving, redoubled
the attention paid ^y the Council ; notwithstanding which
Cornudet affirmed that a conspiracy existed, accusing the
general with being one of its principal leaders ; where-
upon Napoleon, rising, exclaimed with vehemence :

" Me a conspirator ! I could at this moment reveal
secrets which would instantly confound ray calumniators ;
I shall, however, content myself by stating to you that
Barras and Moulin tampered with me to overthrow, the
government, and to place myself at the head of affairs ;
but I would not listen to such overtures, because liberty
is 4earer to me than life, and that I only desire to derve
the French people."

" Representatives of the people 1 I conjure you to
adopt the most prompt and energetic measures to rescue
the country." Bonaparte 'then bowing, retired.

The Council of Five Hundred immediately began
a very stormy discussion, upon which, however, the
members had not long continued, ere. the General sud-
denly re-entered the Hall, unarmed, accompanied by a
few soldiers,, who were equally without any weapons.
Napoleon then advanced to the upper end of the chamber,,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 223

upon which, the Council was instantly put in motion, and
the universal cry of " A General here ! what does Bona-
parte want with us?" resounded through the apartment.

Some of the members flew to the tribunes, others hast-:
ened towards Bonaparte, vehemently exclaiming, "N?
dictator ! Down with the Tyrant ! Down with him ! Kill-
him, kill him I" Upon which he was poshed back and
struck at. Several of the Council then drew forth
poniards and pistols ; and Arena, a native of Corsica, and.
one of the Deputies, aimed a blow at the General with a
dagger, which Thome, a grenadier, parried with his arm,
and was wounded ; Bonaparte being also struck in the.
cheek immediately after.

. The President, Lncien, with great difficulty obtained
leave to speak : " The General/' said he, " has, undoubt-
edly, no other intention than to acquaint the Council with
the present situation of affairs." — Loud clamours and'
threats prevented the President's being heard any fur-
ther ; and the General was so overpowered by the number
of those who precipitated themselves forward to attack
him, that he was - on the point of falling, when General
Lefebvre rushed into the Hall with a body of armed gre-
nadiers, who surrounded Napoleon and escorted him out.
As soon as the soldiers had left the Hall, the members
instantly decreed, that the Council of Ancients had* no
power to invest Bonaparte with the oommand, as that au-
thority could be conferred by the Directory alone. The
President, Lucien, animadverted with great energy on
the disorders, of. the day, and: on the ferocious insults
which some of the members had offered towards an illus-
trious general, who had rendered the most signal and per-
manent services to the Republic. — Several members oried
out, " Outlaw him! he has disgraced his military charac-
ter, and he deserves death from the hand of every patriot:"
others said, " The President is in the conspiracy, or he
would have proclaimed the General outlawed. "—The As-
sembly then became a mob, and Lucien was attacked on.

Digitized by

Google

224 THE LIFE OF

all side**— His authority being no longer limited to, tad
bis life even endangered ; be darted from the chair— in-
dignantly stripped himself of the insignia* of his office,
and made his way to the tribune; having mounted, be
endeavoured to make himself beard, but bis voioe was
drowned in load cries against himself and his brother.—
He then violently exerted himself, but to no effect ; and
tears of agony and indignation started from his eyes, while
his destruction appeared almost inevitable*

When the soldiers* by whom General Boatparte had
hero rescued, had escorted him to the exterior, he hast-
ened to the court of the palace, where the troops were
drawn op, and instantly addressed them as follows : " Sol-
diers, every one thought that the Council of Five Hundred
wonld save the country, but, instead of that, I have seen
only a furious and outrageous mob, ready to destroy me.
I have some enemies; Comrades! may I rely cm you?"—
" Yes, yes, Long live Bonaparte !" was the reply.— He
then selected some grenadiers, who threw open the doors
of the Hall, just as Lucien was on the point of falling by
the stilettos of the Deputies, he was then carried off amidst
their vociferations, and immediately proceeded to the
Council of Ancients, to whom be related the recent dan-
ger of his brother and himself, in the Council of Five
Hundred. — liocten was interrupted in his speech, by Ray*
niec observing the irregularity of permitting a member of
the Council of Five Hundred to speak in the Council of El-
ders, This objection, however, was overruled, apd Locien
Bonaparte afterwards joined his brother, who was inspi-
riting the troops to the acoompKsbmcnt of bin object;
when, after a moment's conference with the General, the
former mounted a horse, in order that be might be better
seen and beard, and then addressed the soldiers to the fal-
lowing effect:

" CiTixBVg I— An President of the Council of Five
Bandied I declare to yon, that the immennn majority of
the Council is now subdued by the terns of some repre-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 225

aentatives, armed with poniards, and threatening with death
these who refuse compliance with their coercive measures.
I declare to you, that those audacious assassins, no doubt
paid by England, are in a state of rebellion against the
Council of Ancients, and have threatened with outlawry
the very General entrusted with the wise measures of thai
Council ; as if we were still in the dreadful times of their
reign, when the word outlawed / was sufficient to out off
the most illustrious beads of the country. I declare to
you, that those few assassins are themselves outlawed for
having attacked the liberty of that Council. In the name
of the people, I entrust to the brave soldiery the honour*
able task of rescuing the majority of the Representatives ;
in order, thai, after being protected by bayonets against
their poniards, they may. be able to deliberate for the wel-
. fare of the Republic.

" General ! Soldiers ! and Citizens ! you will only ac-
knowledge for French legislators those who follow me out
of that seditious assembly; such as remain in the Oran-
gerie must be driven from thence by force. Those assassins
are not deputies from the people, but representatives of
thepamard; such shall be their title wherever they may
be found ; and, whensoever they dare show themselves to
the people, may they be pointed at under the deserved
appellation of •• Representatives of the poniard."

Laeien Bonaparte concluded his speech by crying, out
" Long live the Republic!" upon which die soldiers reite-
rated "Long live the Republic ! Long live Bonaparte!"

General Senmrier immediately after used the following
energetic words :—

" Soldiers !— The Council of Elders approves Gene-
ral Bonaparte, whom the Counoil of Five Hundred has
attempted to assassinate. Villains! we will' overcome
them, and peace shall be restored.'*

The troops were then ordered to enter the hall of the
Council of Five Hundred* Upon which the commanding

VOL. II. — 22. o g

Digitized by

Google

226 THE LIFE OF

officer exclaimed ; " General Bonaparte commands us to
clear the hall/9 The grenadiers advanced and filled one half
of the chamber, the other being occupied by those Deputies
who did not retire, and had crowded round the Presi-
dent's chair. A member, called Talot, then said to the
armed force: " What are you soldiers? You are the
guardians of the national representation — and you dare to
menace its safety and independence ! Is it thus you tar-
nish the laurels you have gained in battle ?" Many of the
members also addressed the soldiers, conjuring them, in
the name of Liberty, not to follow their leaders; the drums
were, however, beat and the voices of the members could
no longer be beard. The grenadiers then pointed their
muskets, when a dreadful scene of alarm and dismay was
exhibited by the tardy Deputies, who, in their eagerness
to escape from the bayonets of the soldiers, choked up the
windows and precipitated themselves over one another.
In this manner the chamber was soon cleared amidst cries
of " Long live the Republic ! Long live Bonaparte !" and
the Deputies were received on the outside by the boo tings
and hisses of the people.

Such was the eventful scene in the Councils of the An-
cients and of Five Hundred, from whence it must be
obvious to the unbiassed reader that even allowing the
ambition of Napoleon in its fullest extent, the instability
and weakness of the then existing state of tilings, and the
sanguinary and destructive changes which bad preceded,
were sufficient causes for exciting the contempt of every
thinking mind and creating a heartfelt desire for the esta-
of some steady form of government that might preclude
blishment the possibility of a renewal of bloodshed, con-
fusion, and universal anarchy.

The Council of Ancients, on learning the occurrences
that had been transacted in the hal) of the Council of Five
Hundred, issued a decree, to the following purport :

" Considering the retreat of the Council of Five Hun-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 227

dred, and that of four Directors, the fifth (Gohier) being
confined, a temporary executive commission, of three
members, shall be appointed.

" The Legislature is adjourned to the 1st of Nivose
next, (December 22), when it will meet again in Paris,
without being farther convoked. %

" Daring the recess there will be an intermediate com-
mission of the Council of Ancients, at present the only
existing one, in order that the rights of the national
representation may be protected.

" The intermediate commission is authorized to con-
voke the Legislature previous to that time, should such a
measure be deemed expedient.

" The sitting is adjourned till nine o'clock in the even-
ing, when the Council shall proceed to the execution of
the above-mentioned measures."

At the above hour those members of the -Council of
Five Hundred who had followed Lucien Bonaparte, their
President, again assembled in the Orangerie, under the
protection of the troops* Lucien once more took the
chair in safety, and sent a message to the members of
the Council to inform them of their having met, upon
which he moved the following resolutions, that were imme-
ately passed :-*-

" The Couucil of Five Hnndred declares, That Gene-
ral Bonaparte, and the other generals and officers com*
manding the troops, as well as the soldiers employed at
St. Cloud, having saved the majority of the Legislature
and the Republic, attacked by a factious minority, com*
posed of assassins, have deserved well of their country.

" The Council also declares, That the two brave gre-
nadiers, Thomas Thome and I. B. Poiret, who defended
General Bonaparte against the poniards of the assassins,
have also deserved well of the country."

Chazal proposed that a committee of five members
should be appointed to consider the propriety of forming
a new government; this being adopted Lucien quilted

Digitized by LjOOQIC

226 THE UFE OF

the President's chair, mounted the tribune, mid pro-
nonnced an animated harangue on the disasters of the
Republic, arising from the misconduct of the late govern-
ment, and the necessity of appointing a new one. His
speech was received with the loudest applause and re-
peated cries of " Long live the Republic !" Boulay de
la Meurthe soon after returned with the report of the
secret oommittee, containing the project of a decree for
appointing a new government: he prefaced his motion
by a long speech, in which he enlarged on the profligate
conduct and incapacity of the Directory, as well as the
defects in the Constitution itself, and the necessity of a
strong executive power, to give solidity to the state, and
prevent the return of anarohy.

The Council theo passed the following

DECREE :

1st. There is no longer an Executive Directory, and
the following persons cease to be members of the nati-
onal representation, on account of the excesses and the
violent attempts which they have uniformly made, and
particularly the greater part of them in the sitting of this
morning':

[This was followed by a list of seventy names, consti-
tuting the number of those who had been most strenuous
in opposing the views of Bonaparte and his colleagues.]

2d, The Legislative Body creates, provisionally, an Exe-
cutive Consular Committee, composed of oitizens Si eyes
and Roger Ducos, Ex-directors, and Bonaparte,
General * They shall bear the name of «• Consuls op
the French Republic/*

3d. This Committee is invested with the fall powers of

• Bonaparte having expelled the Directory, whose residence had
been in the palace of the Luxembourg, when asked where he would
take up his abode ? made answer, after a moment's pause, " At the
palace of the TuilUrics ; it is a good military post*"

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 22©

the Directory, and especially commissioned to restore order
in all parts of the administration, to re-establish internal
tranquillity, and procure an honourable and solid peace,

4th. It is authorised to send delegates having autho-
rities limited according to its own power.

5th. The Legislative Body is adjourned to the 20th of
February, when it is to meet, fn full power, at Paris.

6th. During the adjournment of the Legislative Body,
die members shall preserve their indemnity and constitu-
tional seourity.

7th. They may, without losing their quality as repre-
sentatives of the people, be employed as ministers, diplo-
matic agents, delegates of the executive consular com-
mittee, and in all other civil functions; they are even
invited, in the name of the public good, to accept them.

8th. Before their separation, and during the time of
sitting, each Council shall name, from among its mem-
bers, a committee of twenty-five.

9th. The Committees appointed by the Two Councils
will, in conjunction with the Committee of the Executive
Consulate, determine upon all urgent objects relative to
the police, legislation, and finance.

10th. To the Committee of the Council of Five Hun-
dred will belong the right of proposing, and to the Council
of Elders that of sanctioning such propositions.

11th. The Two Committees will also, in the order
above mentioned, regulate the changes in those parts of
the Constitution, which experience may have shown to be
defective or vicious.

12th. These changes can have no other object but
that of consolidating and guaranteeing inviolably the
sovereignty of the people; the republio one and indivi-
sible; the representative system ; the division of power;
liberty, equality, and the safety of property.

13th. The Executive Consulate Committee may lay
before the other Committees their views upon these
subjects.

Digitized by

Google

230 THE LIFE OF

14th. The Two Committees are charged to prepare a
civil code.

15tb. Their sittings will be held, at Ifaris, in the palace
of the Legislative Body, and they may be convoked for the
ratification of peace, or in cases of great public emer-
gency or danger.

16th. These Resolutions shall be printed, and sent,
by extraordinary couriers, to the departments, and so-
lemnly published and stuck up in all the communes of the
Republic.

This decree was sent to the Council of Ancients, when
the Council of Five Hundred composed the following
Address from the Legislative Body to the French people,
dated, St. Cloud, 10th November, 1799:—

" Frenchmen !— The Republic has once more been
rescued from the attacks of the factious. Tour faithful
Representatives have broken the poniards in the bands
of the assassins, who threatened you with destruction :
they felt that it was time to terminate for ever such ter-
rible commotions ; and, having only consulted their duty
and their courage, they are confident of meriting the
praises of their constituents.

" Frenchmen ! your mutilated liberty, still bleeding
from the wounds inflicted by the Revolutionary Govern-
ment, thought to have found shelter under a constitution
which promised at least some respite. The want of re-
pose was generally felt, a deep terror was still impressed
on every soul, and the awful crisis was not forgotten.
Your military glory might have effaced the most wonder-
ful achievements of antiquity. Struck with admiration,
Europe was elated with your glory, and made secret vows
for the object you aimed at; in short, your enemies sued
for peace: every thing seamed at length co-operating
to ensure to you the quiet enjoyment of liberty and
happiness; that felicity and freedom which alone can
compass it seemed likely to Teward such generous endea-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 231

toots. Bat seditioug men have constantly attacked with
boldness the weak side of your constitution ; they have
cunningly availed themselves of those articles which
might lead to new commotions. The constitutional sys-
tem has been but a string of revolutions, in different
shapes, of which the several factions have taken advan-
tage : even those who wished the most to abide by the
constitution have been often compelled to enforce its
violation, in order to prevent its total destruction. From
such a vaccillating state of government proceeded the*
still more unsettled system of legislation, and the most
sacred rights of social men have been abandoned to the
whims of factions and events. It is necessary to put a
period to such commotions ; it is high time to give solid
guarantees to the liberty of the citizens, to the sove-
reignty of the people, to the independence of the con-
stitutional powers ; in a word, to the Commonwealth,
the name of which has served but too often to authorize
the violation of every sterling principle c it is high time
that the Great Nation may have a becoming code of laws,
a steady and wise government, which may give you a
speedy and solid peace, and ensure you real happiness.
Frenchmen ! those are the motives which have occasioned
the energetic measures of the legislature. In order to
obtain more rapidly the final and complete revival of
every branch of the administration a temporary govern-
ment is instituted : it is invested with sufficient power to
enforce a respect for the laws, to protect the peaceful
citizens, and to repress all conspirators and wicked men.
Royalty shall no longer rear its head : the frightful re-
mains of revolutionary government will disappear ; repub-'
lie and liberty shall cease to be phantoms : a new sera
must commence. Frenchmen ! stand by your magistrates :
nothing can diminish the zeal of those who have had the
courage to conceive snoh flattering and sublime hopes for
your welfare: the success now depends on your confi-
dence, your union, and your wisdom. Soldiers of liberty !

Digitized by

Google

232 THK MFE OF

yoa will be deaf to every perfidious insinuation ; yon
will pursue yonr victorious career; yon will conquer
peace, in order to rejoin your brothers, participate in
all the . blessings yoa have ensured them, and receive
from national gratitude the honours and rewards due to
yonr glorious deeds.

" Long live the Republic!"

Bonaparte, in the interim, was busied in preparing a
Proclamation, with the assistance of his secretary r Bon-
rienne,* which was issued at eleven o'clock at night, on
the 19th Bruutaire, (10th November, 1790), in the fol-
lowing form, which we insert at length, as it oontaias
Napoleon's recital of these extraordinary events :

PROCLAMATION

Of the Commander-in-Chief, Bonaparte.

" Oh my return to Paris I found discord reigning
among all the Constituted Authorities, and that they
agreed only respecting one trnthr viz. ' That the consti-
tution was half destroyed, and unable to save the cause
of Liberty/ I was applied to by all parties* they en-
trusted me with their designs, disclosed their secrets*
and solicited my support. I refused to lend myself to
any party. The Council of Elders summoned me before
them. I obeyed the call. A plan of general restoration
had been concerted by men in whom the nation is accus-
tomed to behold the defenders of liberty, equality, and
property. This plan required a calm and free investiga-
tion, unbiassed by influence or by fear. Agreeably to

• This man, who like so many others, bad shared the favours of
Napoleon in an eminent degree, subsequently rewarded his master's
liberality by the basest ingratitude, publishing anonymously the most
infamous libels against him, and leaguing with the bitterest of his
enemies*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. £33

this idea, the Council of Elders resolved upta tans*
ferriAg the Legislative Body to St* Cloud : it charged
we with the military force necessary to protect its inde-
pendence. I deemed it a doty I owed to my fellow
ci tineas, to the soldiers, who are perishing in oar armies,
and the national glory, acquired by their bloody to. accept
that command. The Councils assembled at St Cloud*
the Republican troops watched otot their external secu-
rity ^ but assassins cansed terror to prevail in the interior ■
Several Deputies of the Goonoil of Five Handled, armed {
with stilettos and pistols, altered threats, and meaaoed J
with, the terrors of death. The plans that were to he j
developed became limited ; the majority was disorgapiaed,
the moat iatrepid speakers disconcerted, and the proposal
and agitation of any wise measure became utterly useless, j
I communicated my indignation and my sorrow to the
Council of Elders ; I requested that I might be allowed ,
to secure the execution of their generous designs ; I re-
presented to them the calamities of the country by which
they had been suggested, when they joined me in near
testimonies of their constant and unalterable dctciasi .
nation. I appeared in the Council of Five Hundred
alone, without arms, my head uncovered, and in such
manner as the Elders had received and applauded me.
I proceeded to remind the majority of the intentions by
which they were animated, and to assure them that they
itil^btrely on their power. The stilettos, by which the
Deputies were menaced, were immediately raised against
him who wished to become their deliverer. Twenty
assassins darted upon me and aimed their weapons at my
breast ; the grenadiers of the Legislative Body, whom I
had left at the door of the hall, ran up and threw them-
selves between the assassins and me ; one of these brave
grenadiers, named Thome, received a blow from a' stiletto,
which pierced his clothes — by those my safety was en-
sured. At the same moment, cries of " Declare him an
at; flam r were heard against that very man who wished
vol. ii,—22. h h

Digitized by

Google

£ 234 THE LI1?E 0F

a

fi to drfend the law. It was the frantic scream of the

assassin against the force destined to rob him of his prey*
—»They thronged round the President with threats in
their mouths, and arms in their hands; they ordered him
to pat the question of outlawry. I was informed of this,
and gave orders that he might be rescued from their fury,
and accordingly six grenadiers effected his retreat. Im-
mediately after, some troops of the Legislative Body
entered the hall, at. the pas de charg*, and cleared iL
The factious leaders, being thus intimidated, dispersed
And fled. The majority, rescued from their attempts,
freely and peaceably returned to the chamber of their
sittings, and heard the propositions which were intended
for the public safety, deliberated upon them, and pre-
pared those salutary resolutions, which are to become the
new and provisional laws of the Republic. — Frenchmen I
you will donbless recognize in this conduct the zeal of a
soldier of Liberty, and a citizen devoted to the Republic.
Views directed to conservation, to ' protection, to liberal
purposes, will resume their due influence by the disper-
sion of incendaries who oppressed the Council ; and who,
though they rendered themselves the most odious, never
ceased to be the most contemptible of mankind.
(Signed) " Bonaparte.

" Alex. Berthirr."

Whilst the Council of Five Hundred was engaged in
composing its address to the people, and Bonaparte bu-
sied himself in promulgating his proclamation, the Coun-
cilof Ancients was employed in discussing the deoree
sent to them from the Council of Five Hundred : at one
o'clock initio morning the Council of Ancients announced
their approbation, and the Three Consuls repaired to
the Council of Five Hundred, when the President, Lo~
cien Bonaparte, thus addressed them :

"CrrreBNsr
" The greatest nation upon earth consigns to you its.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 235

destinies; within three mouths the publio opinion will
judge you. Domestic happiness, general liberty, the
distresses of the armies, and peace, all these are entrusted
to jour care, fra most have courage and zeal to ac-
cept this important duty and such exalted functions ;
but you are supported by the confidence of the nation and
of the armies ; in addition to which, it is well known to
the legislature that your souls are entirely devoted to
the welfare of the people."

The Consuls then took the oath to preserve liberty
and equality, and retorned to Paris about four in the
morning of the 11th of November, and entered upon
their functions immediately. The seal of the Republic
was changed, the newspapers were stopped at the post*
office, and re-printed, for the purpose of making known to
the departments all that had been transacted. In the
evening of the 12th the following Address from the Con-
suls was read throughout Paris, by torch-light :

THE CONSULS TO THE FRENCH PEOPLE.
- " Paris, 2\st Brunurtre, 12th November, 8th Year
of the French Republic, one and indivisible.

" The Constitution of the Third Year was perishing ;
it could neither ensure your rights nor its own safety.
Repeated violations deprived it for ever of the respect of
the people ; several odious and rapacious factions deso-
lated the Republic. France was, at last, on the very
brink of total ruin.

" The patriots have agreed upon a plan. The men
who might have proved dangerous to you have been dis-
carded : those who may be useful and conduct themselves
well in the national representation, have never abandoned
the banners of liberty,

" Frenchmen, the Republic being permanently settled,
will see the hopes of her citizens* accomplished and her j

glorious destinies fulfilled. %

4

Digitized by

Google

236 TnE ^FE OF

" Take with us f A* oaf is of allegiance to the Republic,
one and indivisible, grounded on equality, Liberty,
and the rephbsentativr system.

(Signed) " Roger Duoos,

" BONA*ARTB,
" SfEYEB."*

(" A true copy) Signed, Hugues Bernard Marel,
Secretary-General/'

This change in the government was agreeable to the
people, because the Directory, which was hated for its
corruption and despised for its weakness, was theteby re-
moved. Clamours were, however, raised by the Jaoobins,
because they saw their strength dwindling, and that their
own designs were frustrated ; bat these murmurs, how*
ever, were as effectually suppressed as their efforts, by
the arrest of their leaders : they had not even the me^ns
of turning popular attention to the fallen Directors;
though had they once more emerged into notice, it would
havfe only subjected them to ridicule and danger. Sieyes
and Ducos were in the new Executive ; and the other
Ex-directors did not think fit to court poptilat observa-
tion. Barras had amassed a princely fortune, and con-
soled himself with the enjoyments which his riohes offered
to his voluptuousness, Gohier, the late President of the
Directory, had lost, with the costume of his office, all the
consequence he had derived from its distincUve character.

• Some time after the government of France was changed from a
directory to a consulate, Bonaparte made a proposition to bis col-
leagues, to quit the Luxembourg, which they then occupied, and
make the palace of the Louvre their future residence. 1 he Abbe!
Sieyes, happening to be present on this occasion, exclaimed — "What!
shall Consuls become the inmates of the habitation of a tyrant ?"
" Sir/9 answered Bonaparte, drily, and in a tone of voice that spoke
the sentiments then rising in his soul, " if I had been Louis the
Sixteenth, I should still have remained such ; and if it had ever been
my lot to say mass, I should still continue to do the same." There
is little doubt but the arch-priest Sieyes felt the full force of ^his
well-meried sarcasm.

Digitized by

Google

^APOtEON BOtf APARTE. $37

Moulins was so much the creature of fear, that, having
fled from his post in the honr of danger, he trembled lest
the new Consnls should seek to punish him.

The Revolution of the eighteenth and nineteenth
Brumaire is remarkable fpr having been accomplished
without the effusion of human blood, or any sanguinary
punishment. The bayonet which was displayed, produced
as much respect as a more legitimate argument, and it
was not used, because no resistance could be opposed to
it, by an assembly of men in whom the people placed no
further confidence. Napoleon and the army were the
foopders of the new form of government, and military
pomp, accompanied by all the necessary etiquette, were
combined in the display of its magisterial functions.

Digitized by LjOOQIC

338 THE LIF£ W

CHAP. VIII.

Napoleon's sen/imai/« respecting the Eighteenth Brumaire—
First Steps adopted by the Consular Government— Lenient
Measures pursued in regard to the Priesthood and Emigrants
— Contrary Policy manifested \ relative to French Prisoners

» t» England — Financial Arrangements — Stability of the New
Order of Things— Abstract of the Consular Form of Qo~'
remment — Raderer's Analysis of the Constitution — Cari-
catures on the Directory— Character of the Parisians —
Camhaceresf Le Brun, and Abbi Sieyes — National Donation
awarded to the last mentioned Statesman, and an Account of
his political Career— Arrangement of the Council of State —
Bonaparte's Proclamations to the Generals and Soldiers —
Sabre presented to General St. Cyr, and Napoleon's Letter
to Auger eau on his Appointment to the Command of the
Batavian Army— Letter of the First Consul to the Magis-
trates of Hamburgh, on the Subject of Napper Tandy's
Arrest — Religion tolerated, and Endeavours of the several
Sects to acquire supreme Ascendency — Napoleon enters
into Negotiations for Peace, which are rejected by England
and the Court of Vienna — Efforts resorted to by Great Bri-
tain and France for the Recommencement of Hostilities —
Reflections on the political Change effected by Napoleon
in France — Termination of Hostilities in La Vendue — Bo-
naparte sets forward to take the Command of the Army
of Italy.

The Revolution of the Eighteen tb Brumaire, which we
have detailed in the foregoing chaptef, proved so replete
with political interest to France, and subsequently to
the whole of Europe, that we should esteem ourselves

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. j^g

wanting' in due attention to the reader, did we not insert
Napoleon's opinions on that momentous topic, as handed
down in the journals of Count Las Cases.

" The determination adopted by Napoleon/' says our
authority, " to associate himself with the moderate party,
■subjected him to many dangers. With the Jacobins he
jwould have experienced none, they having tendered him
the post of Dictator—' But/ said the Emperor, ' having
conquered in conjunction with them, it would have been
necessary almost immediately to have combated against
them. A club does not support a permanent leader, it
requires a chief for every passion. Consequently, to have
recourse to a faction one day, and attack it the next, bfc
the pretext what it may, is always an act of treachery i
and such was never one of my principles of Action/

" On another occasion/' says the Count, " after ad-
verting to the transactions of Brumaire, Napoleon ob-
served as follows : ' As regards myself, the only part which
itook in executing the plot was, the uniting at a given
our ull those connected with me, and marching at their
ead to take possession of the government. It was from
the threshold of my door, from the summit of the flight
of steps, and without giving any previous notice/. that I
conducted them to that conquest ; it was in the midst of
that brilliant escort, accompanied by the general joy, and
the unanimous ardour which was manifested, that I pre-
sented myself at the bar of the Assembly of Ancients, to
return thanks for the Dictatorship wherewith they had
invested me/

" ' It has, and will long continue to be metaphysically
disputed/ continued the Emperor, * whether we did not
Violate the laws, and prove ourselves criminal ; but they
are only so many abstractions, good for pamphlets and
tribunes, which* must disappear when opposed to the ur-
gent necessity of the period ; as well might one accuse
the mariner, who cuts away the masts in order to preserve

Digitized by

Google

240 TnE ut>E °*

fee ship from being wrecked. The simple fact is, with*
&ui it$ the gam was lost, and we sewed it.9

" The First Consul," says Count Las Cases in bis Me-
morial, "on arriving at the Tuileries, succeeded to
storms and manners which be was resolved to change-
He had hitherto hew. uniformly in the armies ; be knew
no operand it was that circumstance which greatly em-
barrassed him* liobrun* was at that period a very pre*
cieu* guide to bis inexperience; bankers and men of
business were then the leaders of the ton; and scarcely
bad the First. Consul been named, hefoee many of them
presented themselves to tender great pecuniary loans,
«'Tbe Fir* Gonad," continues our authority, "bade
natural antipathy to such intriguing fnen ef business ;
having made it bis study to adopt different principles to
those, which had actuated Soberer, Barras, and, the Di-
rectory. He was anxious that probity should become the
leading spring and oharacter of his new government,
Bonaparte also found himself immediately enyironed by
the wives of government contractors, who were for the
meafc part gifted with external fascinations, heightened
by elegance of manners, au4 all the auxiliaries of the
mos£ bewitohing costume. But the rigid LeJ>nm was
there to guide his youthful Telemac^m, and he was re-
Sol*ed they should not be admitted into the societies of
the Tuileries."

.The new Consuls entered immediately upon the exer-
cise of their functions; it had been settled that there
should be no President of the Consulate, but that one
Consul should be constantly employed on bis duty, and
each attend in rotation. Manet, who bad been ambas-
sador at Naples, was appointed Secretary-genera} of the .
Consulate.

Intermediate commissions of the Councils of. ^noients
and Five Hundred assembled, and passed some resolu-
tions, abrogating former obnoxious decrees, substituting

Digitized by LjOOQIC

NAPOLEON BONAPAUTE. £4)

a war tax in lieu of a forced loan, ordering the payment
of the annuities and pensions in a more regular and equi-
table manner, and adopting a new system of finance.
The decisive measures of the new government revived
public confidence, and the funds rose very rapidly, whilst
its temper towards those who were not likely to approve
its proceedings was manifested, by a decree, ordering the
deportation ef thirty-seven persons to Cayenne, while
twenty-two were sentenced to imprisonment: amongst
the latter number were Arena, F. Lepelletier, Briot,
Santhonax, and General Jourdan. The name of the
latter was afterwards erased : •• He has fallen into errors,99
said the Consuls, " but he has always been a good defender
of the Republic." They, however, finally revoked the
decree against the whole number.

Religion was early attended to by the Consular Govern-
ment, and the reconciliation of the priests to the new order
of affairs was attempted, in consequence of a report of
Fouoh6, relative to the banished ecclesiastics. It was
declared by the Minister of Police, "that there were
undoubtedly a great number of priests dangerous dis-
turbers of public tranquillity, whom authority should
watch with unceasing vigilance, and sometimes punish;
but that there were also among them men of peaceable
dispositions, and obedient to the laws, who would have
served the Republic, if they had not, by some oppressive
measures, suffered the greatest violence in their dearest
affections and most ancient habits ; snch was the deplo-
rable effect of the coercive measures resorted to daring
the tempest of the Revolution. Public pity for perse-
cuted priests had awakened the energies of justice
against the intolerant and fanatic among them ; and m»
perstition was reviving, even then, the recollection of all
the proscriptions exercised upon the ministers of wor-
ship." The Consuls, therefore, decreed, that the arrets
of the Directory relative to the priests were repealed,
that all those churchmen who had taken the oath equally

vol, 11.— 22, r i

Digitized by

Google

242 TO& UFE OF

with those who had married, and were imprisoned, should
be released.

Before the Consulate was appointed, the Legislative
Bodies bad often discussed the case of some unhappy
emigrants, who had been unfortunately shipwrecked on
their native shores : nothing, however, bad been finally
decided respecting them, for the Jacobins would have
sent them to the guillotine ; and the Moderatists, to pre-
serve them from so cruel a fate, contrived to postpone
the deliberations. The emigrants had remained^ upwards
of three years in close confinement at Calais, and were
afterwards removed to the castle of Ham, in Picardy.
The Consols, by a humane decree, declared, that their
case was in no instance anticipated by the laws respect-
ing emigrants; that it was contrary to the rights of
polished nations to take advantage of the accident of
shipwreck, and surrender np, to the just operation of the
laws, unfortunate persons who had escaped from the
waves ; and that, therefore, they should be released, and
sent from the territory of the Republic. This was an
easy and an honourable method of obtaining the friend-
ship of an enemy ; in this case, not only pity was exhi-
bited in an act of mercy towards the unhappy ; but from
that quarter whenoe vengeance rather than forbearance
might have been expected.

Whilst exercising this act of clemency to a few mise-
rable emigrants, the Consuls published the following no-
tice relative to the French prisoners in England :

" The Consuls have notified to the English Govern-
ment, that, from the 22d December, all the expenses re-
quisite for the maintenance of French prisoners in Eng-
land shall be at the charge of the British Government/'

(Signed) " Bonaparte,

•'Sieves,
Hughes Bernard Maret, " Roger Dugos,"

Secretary-General.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 243

By what policy and by what humanity this determina-
tion was dictated, the arguments which were used at the
time will show. They are curious, because they manifest
an excessive refinement of principle, that has been equally
admired and condemned.

In reference to the above statement respecting the
priests and emigrants, the following anecdote is stated to
have taken place between FouchS and the First Consul.

Foucb6 stood forward as the great advocate and pro-
tector of the Republican party, and while defending their
cause, the Chief Consul, upon oue occasion, answered him
with some asperity : « The Republicans do not love me.1'
u True/' answered Fouche ; " they say that you are the
high-priest of superstition ; however they remain passive.
But how do you think the emigrants, the royalists, and
the priests act whom you think fit to protect?*' Upon
which Fouch6, taking various papers from his pocket,
containing evident proofs of the evil intentions of the
parties he alluded to, added : " Look here, Sir, and here,
these paper* will afford you sufficient information !" •

It was by no means difficult for the new Government
to obtain popularity amongst a people who had been ha-
rassed and fatigued with the violence and the inconsisten-
cies of ten governments, during a period of as many yew's.
The French had been delivered up to the cupidity and
the cruelty of every adventurer who had attained power,
and whose venality and rapacity were increased by the
knowledge that the reign of his own party would be ter-
minated by a faction equally hungry and remorseless;
they had been governed by wretches, who were busied in
turning the heads of the people, that they might elevate
themselves into place upon their shoulders. This multi-
plied succession of profligacy was stopped by the Revolu-
tion of the eighteenth Brumaire. The new arrangements
were more masterly, men less obnoxious were nominated
to situations of trust, and business was despatched
with greater celerity. Obedience being enforced by the

Digitized by

Google

344 ™* LIFE W

bayonet, the ant siy were awed ; and, as no one was per-
mitted to rob in the name of the nation, the people re-
spected the authority which rendered their property secure.

Finance had Bonaparte's early and earnest attendee*.
He ceased resolutions to be passed, in tke Council of Five
Hundred, whereby the Receivers-general of the depart-
ments were authorised to subscribe bonds far the amount
of the direct taxes of their respective departments, which
should be payable by twelve monthly instate unto: they
were directed te furnish a twentieth part in specie of
the amount of the land-tax, te be applied as a sinking
fund for tke extinction of the public debt. The arrears of
life-annuities and ecclesiastical pensions, as they became
extinguished, were to be applied to the same purposes*
and to the liquidation of protested bonds.

When the public saw the national debts put in a coarse
of extinction by adequate funds, the Government found it
no very difficult task to borrow more money* Bonapefte
appointed a meeting of the principal merchants and ban*
kers of Paris, and laid before them the necessities of th*
Government, and the claim* which it had on the confi-
dence of the public, and hinted the probability of a gls>
rious and equitable peace. He assured then** that the
reign of plunder waa ended, that spoliation of property
could never occur under the new syatem of affairs, that
talent alone would rule* and intrigue be abandoned) bat
that, to aoenmplish these various laudable olgeeta, the
public treasury must have recourse to commercial me*
for an advance of money until the new taxes were paid*
The meeting,, which consisted of about seventy of the
wealthiest individuals in Paris, voted, by aeolttnatioxv m
lea* ef twelve millions of livrea ; and Fukhiien, Aeeah

r, Qoyen, Ferregatur, Mullet, Germain, and Dessert*
nominated a commission ef seven* te put the plan
jute immediate effect

Talleyrand shortly after resumed his situation at the
head of the foreign affairs. Citizen Granvitta waa de*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLBON BONAPARTE. 345

spatebed ambassador to Holland, and Cttfnen Bourgoing
to Denmark. General Boornonville was appointed mi-
nister plenipotentiary to the court of Berlin,, and Citizen
Coloben, his secretary of legation; other arrangements
were also made in the foreign department, preparatory to
a new system of diplomacy.

Whilst a few abstruse thinkers presaged the reign of a
new despotism, the change was heard of with joy in the
remotest departments. The different authorities through-
out the Republic declared in its favour, and the senti-
ments of the balk of the people co-operated with them :
they saw that public offices were not saleable, that the
delinquency of persons in situations of trust was punished
by their removal; and they relied upon a Government that
had produced some good for effecting more. Those who
had really experienced benefits eared not by what means
their consequences had been secured, they appeared to
think that they had contended long enough about modes
of government ; and that as their forms had produced
only a variation of their oppressions, that which was best
administered must be the most efficacious.

At length, on the 22d Frimaire, (13th December,) the
public curiosity was gratified by an extensive circulation
of the following Address :

THB CONSULS OP THE REPUBLIC TO THE FRENCH.

u A Coif gTiTtrriON is presented to yon for your ac-
ceptance.

" It puts an end to the tmcertamtiet whfoh the tem-
porary government occasioned in our foreign political
transactions, and in the internal and military situation rf
the Republic.

" It establishes, in its institutions, the appointment of
the first magistrates, whose devoted zeal has been thought
necessary to its activity.

" The Constitution is grounded on the true principles

Digitized by

Google

246 THE LUTE OF

of a representative government, on the sacred rights of
property, of equality, and of liberty.

" The powers which it institutes will be vigorous and
permanent, such as they should be, to ensure the.rights of
citizens, and the interests of the state.

" Citizens ! the revolution is fixed on the princi-
ples from which it originated : — it is ended."

The Constitution itself formed ninety-five articles,
which were arranged in seven chapters. It was dated
Paris, the 22d Frimaire, and was signed by the members
of the Legislative Committees: the signatures of the
Consuls were subscribed ; last, the annexed note being an
abstract of the leading features of this consular code.*

* THE CONSULAR CONSTITUTION.

The French Republic is one and indivisible.

Every man born and resident in France, and of the age of twenty-
one years, who has inscribed his name in the civic register of his com-
munal district, and afterwards remained a year on the territory of the
Republic, is a French citizen ; while a foreigner becomes a French
citizen, who, after having attained the age oftwenty-one years, and
declared his intention of fixing his residence in France, has resided
there for ten successive yean.

The title of French citizen is forfeited by various acts, and also
by a state of hired servitude, either attached to the service of the per-
son or the family.

The citizens of every communal district shall appoint, by their suf-
frages, those whom they think most worthy of conducting the public
affairs. There shall be a list containing a number of names equal to
a tenth of the number of citizens possessing the right of suffrage, and
from this first communal list the public functionaries of districts shall
be selected.

The citizens comprised in the communal lists of a department shall
also appoint a tenth of their number; these shall constitute a second
list, called The Departmental List, from which the public functiona-
ries of each department shall be taken.

The citizens included in the Departmental List shall also appoint a
tenth of their number ; this third list shall consist of the citizens of
each department eligible to public national functions.

The citizens who shall have a right of co-operating in the formation
of any of the lists mentioned in the three preceding articles shall,
every third year, be called upon to exercise the power of replacing
those who have died or absented themselves for any other cause than
the exercise of a public function.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 247

The Constitution was published at Paris on the 14th of
December, with great pomp ; and a decree immediately

The Consult atory Senate shall be composed of twenty-four
members, of forty years of age, at least, to be stationary during life.

For the formation of the Senate" there shall be nominated; in the
first instance, sixty members ; this number shall be increased to sixty--
twp in the course of the eighth year, to sixty-four in the ninth, and
shall be gradually increased to eighty, by the addition of two mem-
bers in each of the ten first years.

The nomination to the office of senator shall be by the Senate, who
shall make choice out of three candidates presented to them ; the first
by the Legislative Body, the second by the Tribunate, and the third"
by the Chief Consul.

They shall only choose from two candidates if one of them is pro-
posed by two of the three authorities presenting them.

The Chief Consul, upon quitting his office, either upon the expira-
tion of his function or by resigning, necessarily, and as a matter of
ait, becomes a senator. The two other Consuls, during the month
ich follows the expiration of their functions, may take their seats in"
the Senate, but are not obliged to exercise that privilege t they lose it
altogether if they quit the consular functions by resignation.

The revenues of national domains, the terms of which are expired,
shall be liable to the expenses of the Senate; the annual salary of
each of its members shall be paid out of those revenues ; it shall be
equal to a twentieth of that of the Chief Consul.

The sittings of the Senate are not public.

Citizens Sieves and Roger Duces, the two Consuls who are to go
out of office, shall be nominated members of the Conservatory Senate ;
they shall unite with the Second and Third Consuls nominated by that
now in existence. These four citizens shall appoint the majority of the
Senate, which shall afterwards complete itself and proceed to the
elections entrusted to its direction.

No new law shall be promulgated unless the plan shall have been
proposed by the Government, communicated to the Tribunate, and
decreed by the Legislative Body.

The Tribunate is to be composed of one hundred members, of
twenty-five years of age and upwards ; they shall be renewed by fifths
every year, and indefinitely re-eligible while they remain upon the
national list.

The Tribunate shall discuss the plans of every law that may be pro-
posed ; it shall vote for the adoption or rejection of them, and shall
send three orators to the Legislative Body to state and support its
plans. It shall express its opinion as to the laws made or to be made,
the abuses to be corrected, the ameliorations to be attempted in every
department of public administration, but never relative to the civil or
criminal affairs referred to the tribunals. Th6 opinions it shall pro-
mulgate are to be followed by no necessary consequence ; they com-
pel no constituted authority to come to any deliberation.

The Legislative Body shall be composed of three hundred
members, of thirty years of age and upwards; who shall be re-
newed, by fifths, every year. There ought always to be one citizen,

Digitized by

Google

248 THE LIPS OF

followed, whioh ordained, that the different riril otters
should open registers of acceptance nod aon-acoapiapce,
to remain open fifteen days, for the signatures of the
citizens.

Rosderer's Analysis of the Consular Constitution of
France is deserving of preservation, because it is simple,
and easily committed to memory. He estimated the male
inhabitants of age, and paying duties as a qualification to
vote, at 5,000,000 citizen voters, who reduced themselves to
500,000 Notables of Communes ; who reduced themselves
to 50,000 Notables of Departments ; who were reduced
to 5,000 Notables of France ; from whom were chosen
500 Legislators, Senate and Tribunate ; and also 80 Con-
servators ; 2 Puisne Consols ; and 1 Grand Consul ; who
chose 30 Counsellors of State, and the ministers, ambas-
sadors, commissioners, &c. The Senate and the Tribu-
nate were not chosen by the five thousand Notables of
France, but out of that class. A body of eighty members,

at least, of each department of the Republic present. The sit-
tings of the Legislative. Body shall in every year continue only four
months.

The Legislative Body enacts the law by secret scrutiny, and with-
out any discussion on the part of its members, upon the plans of the
law debated before it, by the orators of the Tribunate and the Go-
vernment.

The sittings of the Tribunate and of the Legislative Body shall be
public ; the number of strangers in either of them not to exceed two
hundred. The annual salary of a Tribune shall be 15,000 francs, £ 6»5 ;
of a Legislator, 10,000 francs, jf 416.

Every decree of the Legislative Body shall be promulgated bv the
Chief Consul, unless it is referred to the Senate on the plea of being
unconstitutional.

The first renewal of the Legislative Body and of the Tribunate shall
not takeplace till the tenth year of the Republic*

The Government is entrusted to three consuls, appointed for
ten years, and indefinitely re-eligible : each of them is to be elected
individually, with the distinct quality of Chief, Second, or Third Con-
sul. The first time the Third Consul shall only be named for &ve
years.

For the present time General Bonaparte is appointed Chief Con-
sul; Citizen Cambaceres, npw Minister of Justice, Second Consul;
and Citizen Leeeuve, member of the Committee of. Ancients, Third
Consul.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. ^40

(hat constituted representative! of the nation-, either by
a competent elaotion or tbe acquiescence of the people,
under 4b* title of Conservators, chose, first, alt the mem-
bers called to exercise the legislative power ; and, se-
condly, the Three Chief* of the exeeatrve power (Con-
suls), the first of whom afterwards named tbe ministers
and other agents of the Government.

A great portion of 'time was occupied by the Legisla-
tive Bodies in settling the formalities which should pre-
sent the authorities under the new Constitution in great
parade and splendour to tbe people. It was appointed
that the Consols and the Conservative Senate should
eater apon their functions the 4th Nivose, 8th year (26th
December, 1799). The Consols were to furnish the
Conservative Senate, the Legislative Body, and the
Tribunate, with a guard of honour.— -The Luxembourg
was appointed the palace of the Conservative Senate;
the Tuileries the palace of the Consuls ; the palace of
the Council of Five Hundred was for the Legislative
Body ; and the Palais Royal was assigned to the Tribu-
nate. Messengers of state and ushers were also attached
to these different functionaries.

It was not enough, however, that palaces shdufd be the
tl wettings of the new officers of the Republic : the pomp
and oiroumstanoes of official dignity were still farther
increased by the new dresses, which, after mature delibe-
ration of the Commission of Five Hundred, were decreed
sbeuld be worn by the legislative as weB as the executive
bodies ; and even the secretaries, messengers, and ushers,
were assigned their costumes.

Three days after the Constitution -was issued the troops
were assembled in the Champ 4e Mass, and sworn to be
«&bfai to the new Government. The oath to he 4en-
4eted to the magistrates and ciukens became a subject of
•discussion, which ended by a law being passed applicable
to all those who had beea previously bound to take an
oath, and which reduced the different formulas of oaths
vol. II.— 22. K k

Digitized by

Google

250 THE UFE 0F '

and declarations to one only. The Constitution being
considered the elementary rale of the duties of magis-
trates and citizens, the explicit promise of being faithful
to the Constitution included the object of the former laws*
It was then decreed by the new law, that the members
aod officers of the Government, the ministers of every
religious sect, and the tutors of youth, should solemnly
make the following declaration : " I promise to be faith-
ful to the Constitution," and that every other oath or
declaration should be abolished. If there exists a ne-
cessity for an oath under any government, supposed to
be founded on the will of the people, that which was thus
adopted by the Consular Government of France is, per-
haps, the most simple and the least exceptionable of any
that can be taken for a model.

Accustomed to change, and delighted with novelty, the
Parisians received the new Constitution, and viewed the
splendour of the Government with self-complaoency ra-
ther than with surprise ; they read, talked, and drank
their coffee, and laughed. They reasoned very little,
but they hoped a great deal. Bonaparte was their idol,
and they expected him to do every thing for the hap-
piness and honour of the nation. They joked upon the
old Directory, and indulged their humour in bon-mots
and in oaricatures : two of those prints, very well exe-
cuted, then formed a part of the decorations of most par-
lours in Paris. One represented a Jew, with a great quan-
tity of finery, being the costume of the ex-directors, and
ex-legislators, he was in the act of crying, " Old clothes
to sell, as good as new :" the other, also, displayed an Is-
raelite carrying an enormous load of constitutions and
laws, and bawling, " Old constitutions and decrees to
sell, very little used, and very cheap." Perhaps the au-
thor of the following statement, placarded during the
night in the streets of Paris, was not quite so much dis-
posed to serve the interests of the new Government.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 251

" Political Subtraction.
From. . . . 5. . . . Directors
Take. ...2,

and there remains. ♦ . • 3. . . . Consul* :
From them take.... 2,

and there remains . . . . 1. . . . Bon apart b P

This political badinage suited the taste, the leisure,
and playfulness of mind, of the Parisians. It is m
Paris, says an acute writer, that the French should be
studied, because they are more French there than else-
where. Yielding, alternatively and with caprice, to dis-
sipation, ambition, or what they denominate philosophy ;
that is moodiness and misanthropy ; borne away by plea-
sure : now tormented by things of moment, and then by
fanciful frivolities, their ideas are unconnected and:con-
tradiotory, yet successively appear of equal preponderance
in their estimation.

At Paris men feel more than they think, act more than
they plan, and plan more than they determine: they
merely esteem talents, and the arts of taste; scarcely ap-
preciating such as are necessary, which they enjoy With-
out comprehending.

Cambaceres was minister of justice at the time the new
Constitution appointed him Second Consul. Neither of
the other consuls had been members of the National Con-
vention; 'Cambaceres was the only one out of the three,
who had voted on the trial of the King. He declared his
opinion that Louis the XVIth should be confined, but not
executed, unless the Republican territory were invaded
by a foreign enemy. He was a man of more suavity of
manners than vigour of intellect. '

Le Bran, the Third Consul, possessed considerable
talents, and was one of the members of the .Committee of
Ancients. He had formerly been Secretary to the Chan-

Digitized by

Google

Mi t HE LIFE OF

cellor Maupeon, the most arbitrary and tyrannical of the
ministers of Louis the XVth. He bad the reputation of
uniting application with ability.

Before Cambaceres and Le Bran were appointed Con-
sols nnder Bonaparte, Sieyea had been prevailed on to
decline the Consulate ; this point was not difficult to effect ;
as he found himself completely in the power of Bona-
parte, because the latter was the man who possessed most
influence with the people. The retirement of Sieyes is a
memorable event in the History of France since die Re-
rotation, because lie had retained a tery great shard of
power oyer the executive Government at most periods
since its commencement, and be now suddenly became di-
vested of it altogether.

On the 20th of December a message was read to the
Committee of the Council of Five Hundred, stating, that
the Consuls unanimously joined in a wish, manifested by
the t*o Legislative Committees, that it should decree to
Citizen Sieyes a distinguished proof of national gratitude.
44 The citizen," says the message, " who, after having en-
lightened the people by his writings, and honoured the
Revolution by his disinterested virtues, refused, in, the
first instance, the First Magistracy, and then only consent-
ed to aeeept it in consequence of his sense of the dangers
by which it was surrounded, is assuredly worthy of the
distinction which it is your desire should be conferred npon
him, and which it will be impossible for him to retfaee,
when the organs of the law shall have declared the deci-
sion of the Legislature. The Consuls of the RepaMie,
therefore, for the purpose of eariryiag your wish into effect,
and, in oonformity with the law of the 10th Brumake,
submit to you the necessary and formal proposition of
decreeing to Citizen Sieyes, as a pledge of national grar
titude, the right of property to one of the domains at the
disposal of the state.9'

This message, signed by Bonaparte and Roger Dueos,
having been read, was referred to the Section of Finance,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE 253

which, in its report thereon, addressed the Committee of
the Council of Five Hundred.

The result was that the Commission, taking into consi-
deration the urgency with respect to the stability of every
political institution, of conferring a signal mark of grati-
tude on those citizens who had rendered great services to
the country, adopted the following

RESOLUTION :

" The National Domain of Crosnb, in the department
of the Seine and Oise, or some other estate, altogether equi-
valent in valne to the same, is decreed, with the right of
property fall and entirely, to Citizen Si eyes, under the
title of ' National Recompense J

The Committee of the Council of Five Hundred imme-
diately passed the resolution which conferred Crosne upon
Sieyes, as a national recompense; but which he could
not take possession of until the death of the ci-devant
Marquis and Marchioness de Brancas, who had a life
interest in the same.

Sieyes signified his acceptance of the estate by the
following letter, addressed

TO THE LEGISLATIVE BODIES.

" Citizens Representatives,

" The Minister of Justice has just transmitted the law,
decreeing to me a national reward :

" Permit me to express, how deeply I am penetrated
with gratitude for so honourable a mark of your esteem.'9
(Health and respect) x " Sieyes."

'Few men who were engaged in the Revolution had
more entirely devoted themselves to politics than Sieyes ;
and he is one of the many instances of individuals who
have risen by talents and superior genius to considerable
rank as statement

• As no individual made a more conspicuous figure in the annals of

«•

Google

254 THE LIFE OF

By a decree of the Consols, bearing date the third
Nivose (the 4th December), the Council of State was ar-

the Republican system, than Abb£ Sieves, we deem the Mowing note
essentially necessary, as it throws considerable light on the progress of
the French revolution from its earliest period.

Sieyes was born at Frejus, in the year 1748, being the town where
Bonaparte landed oh his return from Egypt. ' Educated for the priest-
hood, he took orders, was preferred to be a vicar-general, and subse*
quently a canon : he then rose to the chancellorship of the cathedral
of Chartres ; and was, at length, invested with the permanent adminis-
trative employment of counsellor-commissary in Paris. To this was
added that ot the diocese of Chartres, a post never given but to the
superior clergy of France. Sieyes was esteemed a learned civilian and
canonist, and possessed a considerable share of knowledge in the belles-
lettres ; his favourite studies, however, were politics, metaphysics, and
economics. He scent the greatest part of his time in Paris, where he
associated with D'Alembert, Diderot, Condorcet, and the other lite*
rati. He was also a member of the Economical Society, which held
its sittings in the hotel of the Chancellor Seguier.

Notwithstanding his excellent qualifications and connexions, it is
probable that Sieyes would not have emerged from obscurity if the
Revolution had not brooght him into a situation to display his talents.
Being appointed deputy to the States General, he began his career by
a publication, entitled/" What is the Tiers Etat ?" This work became,
at the time, the most fashionable book in Paris.

After the meeting of the Tiers Etdt at Versailles, Sieyes was the
person who proposed that they should call themselves " The Assembly
of the Representatives of the French People ;" and he supported his
project with considerable ability.

When the misunderstanding between the orders in the States Gene-
ral assumed a serious aspect, and troops environed the capital, the
deputies on the popular' side had reason to be apprehensive for their
safety. Sieyes, in the sitting of the 8th of July, stated to the As-
sembly, that no troops should be allowed to approach nearer than ten
leagues to the town in which the States General were sitting ; and he
proposed an address to the King, desiring that he would order the
troops to withdraw from the neighbourhood of Versailles. ,

Sometime previously to the month of October, when the King
was attacked in his palace by the mob, a secret committee, consisting
of the Duke of Orleans Mirabeau, La Clos, and the Abbe Sieyes,
was formed in a village near Paris. They had agreed upon a scheme
for placing the Duke of Orleans in so distinguished a situation in the

government, that he could not fail to have the command of the popu-
ice, and, consequently, possess a decisive weight in the National
Assembly ; Sieyes was then a zealous Royalist.

In the year 1791, when it was thought that the King, by attempting '
his escape, had abdicated the crown, a combination was formed, con-
sisting of Condorcet and Brissot in France, and of Tom Paine in
England, for -the publication of a periodical paper,- under the title of
" The Republican.9' Sieyes actually published some answers to pa-
pers which appeared in this publication, and declared his intentions to
support a monarchy against a republic, by every means in his power.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 255

ranged. An immense concourse of people attended the
installation of their three rulers, w^ich took place on the

Sieyes was the author of the " Declaration of the Rights of Man,"
which was decreed by the National Assembly. It was written in his
usual metaphysical style, and excited very different sensations in every
country of Europe. In 1792, Sieyes was appointed a member of the
National Convention. When that body voted respecting the punish-
ment doe to Louis, such was the influence of Sieyes, that a great num-
ber of members reserved themselves till they had heard his fiat. It
was, consequently, understood, that upon his opinion would depend
the fate of the king.— Sieyes at length, mounted the tribune; an
awful silence pervaded the anxious Assembly, when he interrupted the
solemn pause with these four emphatic words, La tnort sans phrase :
Death without further comment ! and instantly withdrew.
. From that time Sieyes was so far concealed trom the public eye that
it was not known whether he was dead or alive. The Parisians report-
ed, that he directed, from his philosophical retreat, many of the
atrocities which were committed under the reign of Robespierre, but ,
of this there appears no proof whatsoever. From the death of that
tyrant till February 1795, he still remained behind the curtain, and
did not appear upon the stage until certain there was no danger of

• the Mountain-party regaining an ascendancy. In order to apologise
for having thus absented himself from business for the space of two
years, he published Memoirs of his own Life, the substance of which
publication was to lament that the Mountain party had abused his de-
finitions of the Rights of Man ; and to state that his system bad been
intended only as the skeleton of civil society.

From the period in question began the most brilliant career of
Sieves'* public life. Having obtained the esteem and confidence of
his colleagues, he was fixed upon to regulate the external relations
of the Republic. It was he who suggested the scheme of concluding
separate treaties with the coalesced powers with a view to create such
misunderstandings as would prove fatal to the royal confederacy. The
subsequent conduct of the European cabinets appeared for a time to
evince that Sieyes was right in his conjectures, and proved, that a
vicar of Chart res had outwitted all the experienced statesmen in
Europe.

So signal were the services performed by Sieyes to his country,
that, when the new constitution was adopted, the popular votes elect-
ed him one of the Ave members of the Executive Directory, which

' post he, however, declined. In February, 1790, he was appointed
member of the National Institute, in the class of metaphysics and
morals ; and, by an unaccountable singularity of choice, the very
same man who had declined a place in the Executive Directory of the
Republic accepted the chair of literature in the central school of the
Mazarine College.

It was said, in May, 1796, that Sieyes brought about the peace con-
cluded between the French Republic and* the Ring of Sardinia;
which is highly probable, since he continued to manage the external
policy of the Directory, nearly in the same manner as he had formerly
directed that of the Committee of Public Safety. A treaty so dis-

Digitized by

Google

£56 THE LIFE OF

fourth Nivoftd, uccompaiited by grwl pomp abd parade.
At the first sitting of the Council of Stat*, Bonaparte

graceful to arv independent sovereign could scarcely have been wished
lor, even by the most inveterate Republican.

In the spring of 1797, Sieyes very narrowly escaped assassination,
from a pistol, discharged by the Abbe" Poulle. During the latter
part of that year he was abused by so many lampoons and pasquinades,
that he retired from Paris, and did not dare to quit his retreat, until
the violent crisis of the 4th of September, when he became one of the
most active members of the Legislature. Alter that he was appointed
ambassador to the court of Berlin, where he rendered essential service
to the Republic, by his exertions to preserve the friendship of the King
of Prussia, which remained indissoluble during a most momentous
contest. It has been reasonably conjectured, that the Ring of Prussia
was not unacquainted with the projects of Sieyes in regard to the Re-
volution, and it is certain, that a very extraordinary and marked re-
spect was paid to him while he resided in Prussia. During his mission
to Berlin, the anniversary of the King's birth-day occurred : Sieyes
went to court; and, on his arrival, the other ambassadors had taken
their seats. The chamberlain of state was much embarrassed, not
knowing where to place the French envoy without interrupting the
diplomatic coterie. Sieyes immediately said, " Ne matter— the first
place will always be that occupied by an ambassador of the French
Republic ;" and he, with much good humour, took the earliest vacancy
that presented itself. On his return to France, the King of Prussia
not only attended the Abbe* in person, to Uje frontiers of his territory,
but presented him with his portrait, set in gold, and richly orna-
mented with diamonds.

Sieyes was -then elected one of the Directory, where his influence
was unbounded ; and he gave accelerated motion to the wheels of
government. Thus situated, he found little difficulty in obtaining
means, in conjunction with Bonaparte, to effect the revolution of
Brumaire. He had sufficient influence not only with the Directory,
but in the Councils, to carry almost any measure he chose. This in-
fluence he turned to the accomplishment of his designs, without being
then suspected of any intentions inimical to the constitution, which we
now see it was his fixed determination to overthrow.

Sieyes does not appear at any time to have possessed the affections
of the French people. Never humouring their follies, and being
reserved and ambitions, they always viewed him with jealousy ; in
theft, the assistance of a man possessed of Bonaparte's popularity,
seemed absolutely necessary to ensure the success of his projects.

The meed of patriotism "has been awarded to Abbe* Sieves for hav-
ing sacrificed his personal aggrandizement for the benefit ana tranquillity
of the French nation. The general opinion, however, is, (hat he had
too far unmasked himself to Bonaparte to be enabled to retreat ; and
never was a politician more belied than Sieves, if in bis forwarding the
views of Napoleon he did not unintentionally commit the act of poli-
tical suicide. This acute and designing politician was afterwards
chosen by the Conservative Senate as their President ; but his career
as a statesman had terminated, and he ended by becoming a dimple
senator.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 257

presided as First Magistrate of the Republic, accompanied
by Ids two brother Consols and the several Ministers of
Government, who presented their various reports; and
in the evening Proclamations appeared in Paris, which
were disseminated in prodigious quantities throughout
die departments.

Fully aware that the consolidation of power could not
be effected amidst the struggles of contending factions,
Napoleon courted the applause of the army, and sought
to ingratiate himself with all the leading generals. By
promotions and rewards he secured the approbation of his
officers ; and the ensuing Proclamation, which was widely
disseminated among the troops flattered the vanity, while
it excited the emulation of tbe private soldiers.

" Bonaparte, First Consul of the Republic, to the French
Soldiery,,
" Soldiers!

94 When I promised peace to the French nation, I
spoke your sentiments; 1 knew your courage: you are
.the saipe men who conquered Holland, the Rhine, and
Italy, and who commanded peace before tbe walls of
terrified Vienna.

" Soldiers ! you must not defend your frontiers now ;
yon most invade the territories of your enemy.

" There is not one among you who has not made several
campaigns, who is not convinced that the first quality of
a soldier is that of putting up with inconveniencies with*
out regret.

" Several years of bad administration cannot be effaced
in a day.

" First Magistrate of the Republic, it will be highly
gratifying to me in letting the whole nation know which
are the troops entitled by their discipline and their con-
rage, to be proclaimed the defenders of the country.

vol. 11.— 28. L 1

Digitized by

Google

268 TIiE LIFE OF

" Soldiers ! in due time I wilt be among you ; and Eu-
rope shall remember that yon belong to a race of heroes.
(Signed) 4t Bon*paktb."

Paris, 95th Dec. Sth Year.

Massena, haying been appointed to the command of
the army of Italy, was introduced to his comrades by a
message from the First Consul ; a recommendation the
more flattering to the new commandant, as it was well
received by the soldiers. Bonaparte had fonght and con-
quered with them ; they owed their victories to his valour
and his genius, and they, therefore, hailed with respect,
and cheered with enthusiasm the following

PROCLAMATION:

" Bonaparte, Vint Consul of the Republic, to the Army
of Italy.
" Soldiers !

" The circumstances which keep me at the head of
government prevent me from being among you.

41 Tour wants are great: every measure is taken to
assist you.

" The first qualities of a soldier are constancy and dis-
cipline : courage follows.

" Soldiers! several corps have deserted their posts;
they have been deaf to the voice of their officers. The
17th light demi-brigade is among that number*

" Are then the heroes of Castiglione, of Rivoli, and
of Newmarck dead ; they would have perished rather than
desert their banners; and prevailed upon their young
comrades to remain faithful to honour and their duty.

" Soldiers 1 you say that 'you are often deprived of
your allowances: what would you have done, if, like the
4th and 22d, and the I8th and the 82d dead-brigades of
the line, you bad found yourselves in the midst of a de»

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. gfig

sert, without bread or water, eating horse's and male's
flesh ? Victory will give us bread, they exclaimed ; yet,
700 ! you desert your banners !

" Soldiers of the army of Italy, a new General (Mas*
sena) commands yon; be was always foremost in your
most glorious days. Rely on him ; he will soon again
render yon victorious.

" I shall ofder that a daily report be made to me con-
cerning the conduct of all the corps* and chiefly of the
17th and 63d of the line. They will recollect my former
confidence in them.

(Signed) " Bonapartr."

" The Commander-in-Chief of the army of Italy shall
direct that the above Proclamation of the First Consul of
the Republic be mentioned and inserted in the general
orders, and read to every company.

" Alex. Bbrthibr, Minister of War."

An elegant sabre which had been intended as a dona-
tion to the Grand Signior, until the expedition to Egypt
rendered French presents unacceptable to the Porte,
was also sent to General St. Cyr, by order of Bonaparte.

General Augereau received the command of the army
of Holland, which was announced to him by a public act
of the First Consul, who also forwarded the following
letter upon that occasion :

" Mr DBAR comrade,

" Show, in all the actions you perform, and in the
plenitude of your command, that you rank above those
petty divisions of the tribunes, the shocks from which
have unfortunately disunited France for the last ten years.
Should circumstances compel me to renew the war of my
own accord, rest assured, that I shall not leave you in
Holland, and that I shall never forget the glorious battle
of Castiglione."

Digitized by

Google

260 THE LIFE OF

Bonaparte, while conciliating tire disposition of tla*
French people, received from the Burgomasters of Ham-
burgh a submissive appeal on the unfortunate arrest of
Napper Tandy and his comrades in that city. They de-
precated the displeasure of the new government, and hoped
that the Consuls would exculpate them from any charges
of insult towards the French nation, and relieve the inha-
bitants from the apprehensions of severity which were
entertained owing to the violent denunciations of the
Directory ; the answer of Bonaparte proved as laconic, ar
the letter of the Hamburghers was verbose :

" Tour letter, gentlemen," said he, " is no justifica-
tion of your conduct.

" It is by courage and virtue that states are preserved ;
cowardice and vice prove their ruin.

" Tou have violated the laws of hospitality ; such a
violation would not have taken place among the barbarian
hordes of the desert. Tour fellow citizens will impute it
to you as an eternal reproach.

" The two unfortunate men whom you have given up
will die illustrious; bat their blood will be a source of
greater evils to their persecutors, than could be brought
upon them by a whole army."

The hopes of the Hamburghers were abated by the
firmness of the Chief Consul ; and as they could not
escape the vengeance of the Republic, they awaited in
sadness and in silence the result of its displeasure.

Religion, under the Consuls, was no longer an object
of persecution but of care. Free toleration of opinion
grounded upon liberty of conscience, and secured by
liberty of worship, seemed to promise a jubilee to the
harassed devotees.

Long had the whole French nation lain under the im-
putation of being Atheists — a God-abandoned people— a
horde of irreligious miscreants. The devout were, there-
fore, flattered by the regulations of the Consuls, which
promised to their hopes a renewal of the former character

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLfiON BONAPARTE. g6t

of the French for religion tod piety, and a revival of a
regular and " most Christian" government.

Already did the true Catholics anticipate the re-esta-
blishment of papacy as the national religion: — "For,"
said they, " how can a country stand without religion ;
and, as there is no salvation bat within the pale of the
Catholic church, the government cannot establish any
other faith hot oars?" They defined the rights of
the religions and the duties of the sectaries and the'
sceptics.

The persecution of all religion for several years bad
not subdued the jealousies which the devout, of different
persuasions, entertained towards each-other ; and the con-
duct of the fanatics proved the folly of giving a power to
any one sect of oppressing another. The Catholics hated
the Protestants ; the latter feared the Catholics ; the
philosophers despised both ; and neither body was con-
tent that the -others should be as free as themselves.
Each was anxious to acquire and preserve a political
ascendancy in the state : — every religious party began
to indulge a hope of becoming the national church esta-
blishment, and of receiving its investiture from the new
government ;— each, therefore, intrigued for the honour
of being the fulminator of the decrees of heaven, against
the good sense, manly liberality, and honest sentiments
of the nation ; while the bulk of the people, who were
to be the objects of the delusion, aided these designs by
their childish desire of change.

Yolney believed " in the virtue of Bonaparte, he had
been his friend, and was admitted to his familiarity ; where-
fore as the sincere advocate of the cause of freedom him-
self, he uniformly continued her strenuous defender. Che-
rishing these opinions he was little aware of the effects
produced, by the exercise of power; that remonstrance had
become offensive, and that a difference in opinion was
construed into an insult. Being, therefore, one day, with
the Chief Consul, endeavouring to convince him of the
mischief he would do to mankind, by again conferring

Digitized by

Google

902 TUE UF8 OF

power on the priesthood, in admitting the moat trifling
of its once usurped claims, and borthening the people
who were of a different creed." Bonaparte replied,
" Why do yon mention the people ? I do bat act ac-
cording to their desire ; a large majority of the popula-
tion wishes for the re-establishment of the church.'9 For-
getful of the possibility, or, perhaps, not suspecting that
the pride of a man so recently elevated could be suscep-
tible of a wound, Volney made answer. " Were you to
act according to the will of the multitude, you would
immediately cede your power : the majority of the people
would vote for the restoration of the Bourbons."

The rage of the (jtansul, on hearing these words, be-
came ungovernable, and the report was, that he rose to
strike Volney, whom he ordered from his presence, sub-
sequent to whioh he never more entered the Tuileries.

While every thing thus assumed the most flattering
aspect, the decided declarations of Bonaparte in favour
of peace more strongly attached the people to a Con-
sular government ; every principle of policy, therefore,
urged him to adopt strenuous attempts for a negotiation,
whatsoever might be his private views upon the subject.

It does not appear that Napoleon entertained any
doubts as to a readiness on the part of the combined
powers to enter into immediate negotiations, and in con-
sequence, he, upon the 26th of December, intimated his
wishes to the Courts of Vienna and Saint James's.

The Emperor, however, was not so eager ; and it was
in vain that the Consul interposed the mediation of the
King of Prussia, while Moreau was employed to impor-
tune the Archduke Charles, and the Prince of Colloredo
equally occupied in remonstrating with the Imperial cabi-
net Great Britain was no less interested in the event, and
Austria would not act without ascertaining the sentiments
of her ally. Much diversity of opinion has prevailed as
to the propriety of conduct adopted upon that occasion by
the Allies ; and if they are to be judged upon the prin-
ciples of sound policy, which can only determine the justice

Digitized by

Google

NAPOMON BONAPARTE. 268

or injustice of an motion by its result, there can be no
donbt but they were too fastidious in their abjections to
the enemy's proposal.

The issue, therefore, seemed to depend on (fee decision
of the British cabinet, and a long correspondence, in
consequence, took plaoe between Talleyrand and Lord
Grenville, then Secretary of State ; while warm debates
occurred in the Houses of Lords and Commons on the
subject of peace, or the oontinoance of war. The latter
measure being carried by a great majority excited the
indignation of the French rulers, while the decided mea-
sures of the English ministry more firmly attached the
Court of Vienna to the common cause against Republican
France. The German empire, however, became daily
less convinced of the necessity of continuing the war,
and the government received nothing in the shape of
voluntary aid. Bonaparte saw in this laxity a favourable
symptom for his object, and continued to correspond with
the Archduke on the subject of peace, sending his aid*
de-camp to the head-quarters of that prince, as he was
prohibited from proceeding to Vienna. The arrival of
General Kray, on the 16th of February, at Deuaus-
chingen, to succeed the Archduke in the command of the
army, terminated the hopes of peace, when the French
government being defeated in its pacific attempts was
compelled to seek' it at the mouth of the cannon. The
determination of the Combined Powers to proseonte the
war was communicated to the Legislative Body on the
7th of March, when the Address contained evident proofs
of indignation against Britain, which were couched in the
following terms :

" Frenchmen ! you have been anxious for peace ; your
government has desired it with still greater ardour: its
first steps, its most constant wishes, have been for its at-
tainment. The English ministry has betrayed the secret
of its horrible policy : to dismember France, destroy its
i and its ports, erase it from the chart of Europe,

Digitized by

Google

264 ' TUE LIFE 0F

or lower it to the rank of a secondary power; to keep
every nation on- the continent divided from each other, in
order to g&in possession of the trade of the whole and
-enrich itself with their spoils ; it is to obtain this horrible
triumph, that England scatters her gold, becomes prodigal
of her promises, and multiplies her intrigues."

Whatever truth there might be in the allegation on
either side, it is certain that, from the period in question,
war became a personal contest ; and, if it be trne that
the Allies took no very lively interest in the re-establish-
ment of the Bourbons, it will be a question, whether the
mere desire . of embarrassing an individual was not too
frivolous a motive for hazarding the further effusion of
human blood.

England and France were now identified as principals
in the war, and each exerted all its efforts to acquire
strength, and multiply its resources. On receiving intel-
ligence of the death of General Washington, Bonaparte
strove to conciliate America,. by a well-timed compliment,
in ordering all the colours and officers of the Republic to
wear black crape for ten days. Such of the European
powers as had persevered in a state of neutrality were
also considered as worthy of being conciliated, from poli-
tical motives.

The First Consul was equally attentive to the King of
Prussia, whom neither the prayers nor threats of the com*
bined powers could awaken from his inflexible apathy.
He had continued neutral during the existence of the
Directorial government, and, therefore, it was not to be
expected that the mildness , and moderation of the Con*
sular authority would alter his resolution. . Bonaparte,
however, left nothing unattempted to induce the court of
Berlin to espouse the cause of the Republic. against the
coalition, .as the most likely means of terminating the war.
Notwithstanding this, the King of Prussia would not
abandon the line of conduct he had hitherto pursued.

The new French ambassador, BournonyiUe, was kindly

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 265

received at the court of Berlin, and the Chief Consul,
through the medium of that Minister, had the fullest as-
surances of neutrality on the part of Prussia, that mo-
narch's example being also followed by the Elector of Sax-
ony. It was in vain the Imperial Cabinet solicited his co-
operation ; the late revolution in France had determined
his choice. Sweden also began to evince more friendly
dispositions towards the Republic, and the neutrality of
Denmark was confirmed by the example of Prussia.

The attempts of the French government to procure the
blessings of peace having proved unsuccessful, the most
vigorous efforts were made for opening another campaign.
An army of reserve, to consist of 60,000 men, was to be as-
sembled at Dijon, which city was to constitute the general
rendezvous for the military operations of the armies, both
of Italy and Germany, on account of its central situation.
Every class of men in the Republic entertained the most
sanguine hopes of being able to dictate a peace at the
point of the bayonet ; and many, who had been dissatis-
fied with the Consular government, now came forward
with a hearty tender of their services. Numbers flocked
to the standard of Bonaparte without solicitation, and pro-
vided themselves with martial accoutrements at their own
expense. The chief command of this army was at first
conferred on Berthier, who had been Minister of War
since the 18th Brumaire* His successor in this last
office was 'Carnot, the ex-director, whom the Consul had
found it his interest to recal, and who had always con-
ducted himself in every situation with probity, honour,
and the most undeviating assiduity.

To repair the disasters, and enable France to meet
the dangers with which she was threatened, occupied all
tbe attention of the Consular government* A new army
was ordered to be assembled at Dijon, called the army of
reserve, under command of General Bertfeier, to amount
to 60,000 men ; and all persons were invited to accele-
rate its formation, upon the patriotic principle of revenge

vol. H. — 33. m m

Digitized by

Google

266 THE LIFE OF

against England for refusing to ratify peace. The mili-
tary conscription was enforced with unusual rigour, and
extensive arrangements were made to increase the new
army by a great nbmber of volunteers. The utmost dili-
gence and spirit were exerted in the departments, and
strong appeals to the passions succeeded in collecting
vast numbers of crusaders to the Consular standard, who
were confirmed in their zeal by public proclamations.

It was the embarrassment of the finances that induced
the Consul to appeal to the voluntary efforts of the people ;
for, in his circumstances, the good humour of the French
was the most important and valuable treasure be could

In consequence, the camp continued to form ; and
although the conscripts and soldiers were openly told that
the salvation of their country depended entirely upon their
energies, the discipline throughout the army was not suf-
fered to relax under a mistaken notion of securing by that
means the good will of the soldiery. It was about this
period that Girardin, one of the Tribunes, exclaimed,
when a vote for the levy of 30,000 conscripts had been
carried by the Assembly : " When Bonaparte promises
to march at the, head of our armies, could we fear re-
verses !— Reverses and Bonaparte ! two such words stand
confounded when appearing upon the same line !"

Upon the appointment of JBerthier to the chief com-
mand of the army of reserve, the First Consul prevailed
upon the ex-director, Carnot,- to accept the office of Mi-
nister of War; and that excellent tactician undertook
the task with great alacrity, notwithstanding the ill-treat-
ment he had received from Bonaparte, subsequent to the
revolution of the 18th Fructidor.

The appointment of Carnot ought to have prepared the
Combined Powers for some very grand plan of operations ;
but they do not appear to have acted from any such
persuasion. By the French government every degree of
energy was exerted : one soul animated the immense mass

Digits

zed by G(30gle s

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. ^ffj

that was in motion, from the banks of the Mediterranean
Jo the borders of Hesse ; and every effort wad exerted to
combine their united energies, so as to direct the whole
en masse to the accomplishment of one grand object.

It was at this juncture despatches arrived from
General Kleber, stating the complete failure of all the
plans projected in Egypt, with the articles signed for the
evacuation of that country, by the miserable remnants of
the republican army, which we have detailed in a former
chapter.

Thus did the Consul witness the termination of a pro-
ject which contemplated the vast schemes of overturn-
ing the power of Britain in the East, and uniting the two
seas ; Bonaparte, however, consoled himself for this
failure against Britain, by the consideration of his having
overturned the pusillanimous government of France, and,
if he could not unite the oceans, he conceived that he
should do much better, by identifying the house of Bona-
parte with the fate of the French nation.

No event had occurred from the first dawn of the
French revolution that led to consequences more impor-
tant in their nature or more extensive in their effects than
Bonaparte's accession to power. The principles of repub-
licanism were now subdued, and the rights of man no
longer asserted in France, which for eight long years
held the poniard to the breast of every individual who had
ventured to doubt the political equality of man.

The assumption of the government by Bonaparte ope-
rated as a kind of touchstone upon all parties : for his
authority did not rest upon any principle which those who
professed their attachment to liberty had not exploded ;
and, as far as regarded mere political rule, there was
not one of those principles which the British government
and its friends had not pointed out as the basis of good
order. It was evident to all the world that the British
minister bad pursued the war for the sole purpose of dis-
comfitting Jacobinism ; and the First Consul bad drank

Digitized by

Google

268 THE LIFE OF

so deep of the spirit which actuated that minister, that
be laboured day and night for the same object ; and yet,
when he sued for that friendship which kindred spirits
generally bear towards each other, instead of aoknow*
lodging Bonaparte's merits, Mr. Pitt obstinately repulsed
hitb, as if he had really been the " child and champion
of Jacobinism/'

Not a rational effort, not a rational suggestion in fa*
vour of liberty made its appearance in England after this
period ; and if ever such an event should happen again,
it will not be till that listless and torpid portion of the
community, which credulously follows the unexamined
opinions of others, shall become wise enough to take the
trouble of thinking for itself, and following such leaders
as fairly explain their ultimate designs in clear and un-
equivocal terms.

The overthrow of Republicanism, by Bonaparte, placed
the court, the ministry, the politicians, and the people of
England in a situation widely differing from that in which
they had found themselves prior to the event in question.
None, however, possessed sufficient discernment to discover
the change, except the small circle constituting the interior
of the cabinet of Saint James's. This single event
effected more towards confirming the abuses known to
exist in the English Administration, than all the coercive
aots and arbitrary imprisonments of Pitt and his col*
leagues in office ; since it even diverted that ministry of
the engine whereby it had maintained its own power,
reducing it to insignificance and contetopt even with the
Court itself.

The issue of the French Revolution had manifested,
as far as it had gotie, that a corrupt people is incapable
of producing a pure government ; and the argument was
as applicable to the population of England as that of
France ; for those who approved of the French excesses
would equally have committed them, if they had had the
same opportunity, and bowed their necks to s\ military

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 269

government in their own country as readily as they admired
it in another.

Much valuable time bad been wasted in attempts to
change the mind of the Emperor of Russia, when his
inf exible resolution to desert the confederacy was declared
in a way that deprived the Allies of all grounds for ex-
pecting his co-operation. Bonaparte had availed himself
of the season of suspense to employ the active General
Brtme, ci-devant commander-in-chief in Holland, to allay
the troubles in the Western departments, and conciliate
the inhabitants by relaxing the severities which the mis-
taken policy of the Republic had exercised there.

These Royalists acted with more consistency than any
other description of people whom the Revolution had a
tendency to affect : tbey did not principally fight for the
family of Bourbon, but against the tyranny of the Re-
public ; and, when that tyranny was overthrown, they
had no longer sufficient motive for continuing in arms*
A short truce was granted them by the French generals,
which, being followed by a general anfinesty, and some
ameliorations in religious arrangements, terminated in an
amicable adjustment. Georges and Frotte, two enter*
prising chiefs of the insurgents were included in the am-
nesty ; but it was afterwards discovered (or said to be
so by Bonaparte's generals) that the peace had been
treacherously entered into by the rebel generals and
officers, with a view of gaining time, till one of the
Bourbon princes could be landed : whether true or false,
Frotte, and. many others, were shot as traitors, after
which Brune announced Nthe termination of the war in a
Proclamation to the Vendeans, flee.

• About the period that the campaign was opened on the
Rhine, the army of reserve began its march from Dijon :
the government announced it to be at that time 50,000
strong, and receiving reinforcements every day. The
First Consul made it no secret that he should take upon
himself the chief command. On the 5th of May, he arrived

Digitized by

Google

270 THE LIFE OP

at Dyon, where he reviewed the army. Ridiculous and
chimerical as the Allies treated the Consul's idea of lead-
ing his army to victory by way of the Alps, Bonaparte,
, ; trusting to the resources of his invincible mind, promised
his troops at Dijon, that in two decades he would lead
them to Milan ! It was incredible, and the unbounded
confidence of his army was necessary to receive such an
assurance in any other light than the vapouring of an
arrogant coxcomb. The Consul had performed his jour-
ney from Paris to Dijon in twenty-five hours* and he lost
no time in transmitting an account of his arrival to the
Second and Third Consuls at Paris. Had the Russians,
continued firm to the confederacy, there would, doubt-
less, have been sufficient force left' in the Vakti Aoste
to have prevented the possibility of traversing the
Alps ; but it is evident the Austrian* were not strong
enough to mbet the determined resistance of the French
cohorts, and the consummate talents of their indefatigable
leader.

Whatever objects Melas had in view, by pursuing
Suchet, he was evidently promoting those of Bonaparte;
for every step his troops took towards the department of
the Var led him from the grand source of mischief that
was preparing against him, and which he ought to have
been present to frustrate. It was certainly of consequence
to prevent any communication between Massena and
Suchet; but, with a powerful English fleet in the gulph
of Genoa, it wonld only have been necessary to secure
the Col de Tende to have answered that purpose ; and a .
small force acting with energy similar to that of Suchet
and his corps would have secured that pass.

Whether it was the genius of the Consul, or the Minis-
ter of War, who planned the campaign, has been a
matter of dispute among their respective friends ; but
these are subjects of contention which the real advocates
for their country would never enter into. The arrange-
ment itself evinced such brilliancy of talent, and its exe~

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTB. ?J\

cation so much military skill, that the competitors would
lose no portion of credit were they to admit that the
united geniuses of Carnot, Moreau, and Bonaparte, had
all contributed in planning and executing such a colossal
design.

The power of the Allies was now entirely divided. A
glance at the map shows the armies of Melas and Kray,
as it were, at the two extremities of a transverse line, of
immense length, and the French forces placed between
them : not content with the pony warfare of dividing such
corps as those of Massena and Sachet, but preparing
itself to dissolve the whole power of the Confederacy,
and lay it prostrate at the foot of France.

Digitized by

Google

272 'HIE LIFE OF

CHAP. IX.

Bonaparte commands the Army of Italy at the Passage of
Mount Saint Bernard, and Dangers attending that momen-
tous Enterprise— Capture ofAosta and Chatillon — Difficul-
ties which the French Forces had to encounter at Fort de
Barre and the Rock of Albaredo — Dangers and Fatigues
encountered by the First Cousul — Taking oflvrea, Romagno,
and Vercelli — Triumphant Entrance into Milan — Account
of the City ofPavia — Battle of Montebello — Enthusiasm of
the Troops for Bonaparte — Arrival of the First Consul and
his Army on the Plains of Marengo— Battle of Marengo —
Interesting Description of that memorable Conflict, by an
Officer of the Consular Guard — Arrival of Desaix — Napo-
leon's Opinion of the Austrian Troops at the Battle of Ma-
rengo, as handed down in the Memoirs of Count Las Cases—
Bonaparte's Description of the Affair at Marengo — Re-
sults of the Battle — Traits qf Humanity — Military Capacity
of Napoleon, particularly exemplified at Marengo — Con-
vention between the French and Imperial Armies— Death
and Character of Desaix— Fallacy of the generally-received
Opinion that the Victory at Marengo was solely due to the
gallant Desaix — Napoleon's Remark ?o that brave Officer ,
and his Opinion of General Desaix, as delivered to the French
Institute.

Bonaparte having arrived at Martigny, a village of the
Upper- Valais, situated at six leagues distance from Mount
St. Bernard, chose that place, on account of its proximity
to the mountains, as most proper to prepare for and su-
perintend the astonishing passage which he had resolved
to accomplish. He remained there three days in the

Digitized by

Google

. NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 273

House of Convalescence belonging to the monks of Mount
St. Bernard.

The army of reserve, led on by General Lasnes, com-
mander of the vanguard, saw everywhere flying before it
the terrified inhabitants, who, alarmed at the distant view
of so many soldiers, deserted their abodes and sought
shelter among the rocks of ice and snow. The more ad-
vanced forces had already reached St. Peter, at the verge
of the great mountain St. Bernard, on the 15th of May,
General Berthier then acting as commander-in-chief, or,
rather, as Bonaparte's lieutenant. At St. Peter the whole
park of artillery and ammunition was collected ; but of
what use was it to the army ? they had to meet the enemy
on the opposite side of the Alps : and if Hannibal had
crossed these mountains before, it was on account of his
not having had such heavy and embarrassing ordnance to
transport.

The height of the mountain, over which it was neces-
sary for the French to pass, was one thousand eight hun-
dred feet above the level of the sea : it required two days
to climb the ascent ; not because of its height, but on
account of the ice which constantly envelopes it.

The naturalists who travel among these mountains fur-
nish themselves with a long stick, a hatchet, and cramp-
irons, to prevent them from sliding: it is also necessary to
be provided with food and with guides.

In summer as well as in winter these almost inacces-
sible rocks swallow up many an incautious traveller, who
has the temerity to stray among them : stupendous blocks
of ice sometimes roll from the top of Mount Voldnd, ca-
pable of burying two hundred persons !

Upon Great Mount St. Bernard is a monastery of Ber-
nardins — a religious order of men, who are perfectly sa-
tisfied with three months of summer and three hours of
fine weather in a day, during this fleeting season, in ex-
change for the numerous privations they are obliged to

vol. ii.— 23. N n

Digitized by

Google

274 THE LIFE 0F

s offer in their dreary abode, in consequence of its afford*
ing them unusual opportunities of doing good.

The monastery has much the appearance of a large inn ;
and there are, beside, at a small distance, two other
houses which depend upon it.

Among the ingenious acts of benevolence which these
voluntary exiles practise, for the benefit of their fellow
creatures, is the pains they take in instructing the canine
species to alleviate and diminish the number of accidents
peculiar to the vicinity. At morn and eve the dogs of the
monastery are sent forth to explore the frozen caverns
of the heights ; and if, in their journies of discovery,
they hear the cries of any unfortunate creature, they run
towards the spot, express their joy, and exert all the
powers of their instinct to encourage the hopes of the
engulpbed sufferers. Upon this they hasten back to the
convent, and, with an air of disquietude, announce what
they have witnessed, when small baskets are fastened
round the dogs9 jnecks, filled with food proper for reanima-
ting life, while requisite persons proceed with the saga-
cious messenger to assist in snatching the unfortunate
creatures from destruction.

At two hundred paces below the convent is situated a
lake, the- depth of which is not ascertained, and scarcely
ever thawed ; the snow collects in heaps, and covers so
completely the frozen surface of these passages, that tra-
vellers often slide under without being able to avoid it.
Till this period of time neither artillery nor ammunition
had crossed either mountain : however, it became neces-
sary to consider the question : what is an army, in the
present day, without artillery ? its necessity in this respect
was imperious. In vain did infinite obstacles present
themselves to intimidate the most ardent imagination :
everything had been foreseen by the genius which con-
ceived this daring enterprise, and all measures were
adopted to carry it into full execution.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 375

The artillery corps immediately commenced dismount-
ing the cannon, caissons, forges, &c. piecemeal. Gas-
send i, Inspector of Ordnance, was ordered to hollow a
number of the trunks of trees so as to form troughs, in
which the pieces of cannon might safely slide, and which
five or six hundred men, according to the weight of metal,
were appointed to drag op those tremendous heights:
the wheels were carried by hand upon poles ; and sledges,
made expressly for the purpose, at Anxonne, conveyed
the axletrees and the empty caissons ; while lastly, mules
were loaded with ammunition in boxes made of fir.

In order to encourage this very arduous labour, from
four to five hundred livres were offered for every cannon,
with its ammunition, so transported : the exertion of a
whole battalion was requisite for the conveyance of one
field-piece, with its necessary ammunition : one half of a
regiment could only draw the load while the other was
obliged to carry the knapsacks, firelocks, cartridge-boxes,
canteens, kettles, and, more especially, five days provi-
sions, in bread, meat, salt, and biscuit! The whole of
these accoutrements and necessaries might make a weight
of between sixty to seventy pounds. The men yoked
themselves-, about one hundred to a cable, and in this
manner dragged the cannon up the mountains, General
Marmont commanding upon that memorable occasion.

The heavy baggage was sent back to Lausanne, the
Consul himself only taking what might be deemed abso-
late)y necessary. The first division of the army, com-
manded by General Watrin, followed the movement of
the vanguard, while the main body of the forces followed
at no great distance. They were obliged to ascend one
by one ; nobody was tempted to endeavour to get before
his comrade, as it might have occasioned his being irre-
coverably swallowed up in the snow. The head of the
Indian file column halted every now and then, when the
soldiers allayed their thirst, by soaking their biscuits in
the water of the melted snow ; and, such were the fatigues

Digitized by

Google

27Q THP LIFE OF

of the passage, that these refreshments appeared to them
qnite delicious.

It took five hours to arrive at the monastery! when
every one was indulged with a glass of wine. "This
very liquor, though actually frozen (says Monsienr Petit),
warmed us and recruited our strength ; no one, not even
the most avaricious among us, would have exchanged that
single draught for all the gold in Mexico.

There was still a journey of six leagues to perform, but
the rapidity of the descent rendered those eighteen wiles
truly terrible : at every step the trqops encountered deep
crevices, formed by the melting of snow ; and it was in
vain they held their horses fast by the closed reins of tljeir
bridles, that did not preserve them from dangerous, apd
sometimes fatal, slides ; the men themselves, in spite of 41
their precautions, often fell ; and, whatever difficulties
they suffered in recovering themselves, they still ran the
risk of drawing their horses out of the path and perish-
ing with tbem.

Bonaparte entered the monastery, accompanied by the
prior of the House of Convalescence, who had followed ;
but he staid there only an hour, when, on quitting it,
he exhorted those respectable hermits to continue to de-
serve well of humanity.

The Consul's mules and horses were in the train of the
army ; and being no doubt anxious to rejoin it by tjbe
shortest road, he entered a path which some infantry
pursued. Towards the middle of this march the descent
was . so steep that he was obliged to slide down the de-
clivity upon his breech, from a height of about two hun-
dred feet ; and, in crossing the lake before mentioned, he
had very nearly been swallowed up by a collection of
thawed snow. The holes into which the soldiers fell
every instant rendered this part of their journey over the
mountains more fatiguing than during the ascent: they
had commenced their march at midnight and did not ter-
minate their labour until nine o'clock in the evenwg ; for

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLE0P BONAPARTE. JJ77

fourteen talgue* they tafl scarcely e*ten juaty food, yet
extreme fatigue, and great want of sleep, made them
fP$ily forget the badness ef tfceir supper.

Before Bonaparte ascended the mountain he wrote tp
his brother {j^cpo, Minister of the Interior, the following
letter, which arrived at Paris on the 23d of May, dated

May ]£th, at night.
f I am at the fopt of the Great Alps, in the midqt of
the Valais. The Great St. Bernard*1 offered many ob-

• The passage of Mount St. Bernard being an eyent of so much
importance, we subjoin the following, being another account of that
celebrated undertaking s—

Two rpads descend into the valley of the Rhone near Martigny.
The one is from Chamouny, over the Col de Balme, and the other
over the G*eat $t. Bernard. This last was the one made use of by
General Bonaparte for the passage of his army ; an undertaking, in
which a bold originality of enterprise was aided by the powers of an
intelligent and vigorous execution; six hundred, eight hundred, and
one thousand francs had been previously ottered for the transportation
across the mountain of pieces of artillery, according to their calibre,
and the whole peasantry of the neighbourhood were set in motion ;
trees hollowed into troughs received the guns, the peasants harnessed
themselves, the soldiers volunteered their services, and the astonishing
spectacle was afforded, of an army marching by large detachments,
* with aU the cumbrqus apparatus of war, along the winding narrow
path of a mountain, and where it rises to the height of seven thousand
nine hundred feet above its base.

la the narrow plain, at {hat height* is a hospice J it has exited for
maqy centuries, and the good fathers, who reside in this, the loftiest
of all human habitations, have been ever distinguished for their active
zeal va. betjalf pf the imfcgluiiafte, and for their kindness and hospitality
to persons of all nations and of all religions. The fail of an avalanche,
which may have obstructed the road, or a snow storm of uncommon
violence, » a call upon their humanity. They sally forth from their
convent, and, aided by the sagacity of their dogs, very frequently dis-
cover a way-worn traveller,, either buried beneath a heap, of drifted
snow, or seated in all the bitterness of despair on the brink of some
frightful precipice.

The good sense of the First Consul had pointed out to him the pro*
priety of protecting these respectable men, at the same time that he
rendered them useful to his army ; they were furnished with money,
that they might provide every thing in time, which the soldiers could
properly have occasion for, and a, frugal, but plentiful, repast, was
always ready for each detachment, as it arrived. It must have been
an interesting sight to have beheld some thousands of men, seated in
circles upon this plain, amid scenes of eternal winter, and waited upon

Digitized by

Google

278 TUE LIFE OF

stacles, which have been surmounted. The third of the
artillery is in Italy : the army is descending by forced
marches. Berthier is in Piedmont. In three days all
will be over,

M Bonaparte."

On the following day, after a few hoars sleep,
which had refreshed the harassed body, the vanguard,
composed of the 6th light brigade, the 28th and 44th
of the line, the 11th and 12th of hussars, and of
the 21st of chasseurs, marched upon thb town of Aosta,
in Piedmont* the seat of numerous Roman antiquities,
whose ancient and hardy natives, the Selassii, a people
of Celtic extraction, were first subdued by that power
under its General, Terentius Varro. Its present inha-
bitants, the most simple people in Piedmont, are inca-
pable of any exertion ; the French found however an
Hungarian battalion which attempted to defend the
entrance into the town, but it was obliged to retire with
loss, and a deputation of the place waited upon the Consul
with offers to surrender.

Three leagues south-east of Aosta, is the town of
Chatillon. General Lannes, in advancing towards it, was
informed that the enemy was disposed to make * resist-
ance on a draw-bridge constructed on a precipice, over
which, so as to avoid this pass, it was not possible for
infantry to make their way. Without a moment's hesi-
tation, the Chef de Brigade, Fournier, sprang forwards,
and with the 12th hussars, attacked them in so brisk a

by the fathers, of the convent. The whole of the passage was effected
in three days, and without the loss of a man. The citadel, which
commanded the descent into the plain, was too scantily supplied with
ammunition to oppose any serious obstacle.

At the upper end of a saloon in the Hotel des Invalided, at Paris,
was, for many years, a picture of Napoleon by his favourite painter,
David, in which there was great merit. He was represented as on
horseback, at the moment of passing the St. Bernard.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 279

manner, thai in a abort time 'the force which bad ad*
vanced to defend the pass, was overthrown or sabred,
and the passage cleared of every one of the enemy, who
lost forty of Ferdinand's hussars prisoners, with two hun-
dred infantry, .and a three-pounder, which composed the
whole of their artillery. The fugitives were pursued as
far as Fort de Barre, having barely time to raise the
draw-bridge after them. The French followed and soon
fonnd themselves at the foot of a rock, which suddenly
stopped the whole army. They were pent np as it were
in a narrow neck, terminated by this rock, where four
days would have been sufficient to exhaust the whole
of their subsistence, and which the difficult and toilsome
passage over Mount St. Bernard had left them no means
of supplying. This alarming impediment afforded General
Melas time to arrive, and oppose, in person, their passage
through the defile. At the same time their situation then
unfolded to him their whole design, which before be bad
either doubted, or to his misfortune had altogether de-
spised. Nature, without any aid from art, bad formed .
this rock of such materials, that it might truly be Con-
sidered as impregnable. The road runs at its foot, which
is watered by the Doria, a deep, rapid, and dangerous
river. The opposite bank is also formed of high rocks
inaccessible to man, which serve only for the habitation
of marmots and screech-owls. To the left of the arch
are seen other rocks, equally elevated with the former,
but less impracticable, being strewed here and there
with vines, to which the wretched inhabitants of thia
country have access by means of steps cut in the ac-
clivities.

There was but one of two courses to pursue, that of
taking the fort by assault, or seeking for another passage,
which, by avoiding the fort, might enable the French to
pursue their route. Each of these measures appeared to
bid equal defiance to force and ingenuity. But the
genius of Bonaparte sufficed ; and it was on thia occasion,

Digitized by

Google

280 1**e Lfrfi OF

more perhaps than on any other, that lie provetf there U
nefhhif impossible to Aim who is resolved to effect his object.
Three cdffipanies of grenadiers took possession of the
stiburbs of the place, and lodged themselves therein.
DttHng the day they remained concealed, that they might
net b* cannonaded' by the gdns of the fort. But, through
the casements they shot all those of the enemy who
shewed themselves at the embrasures of the Wall, and in
this way greatly discomfited them, the artillery and gar-
rteon, however, rendered the fort very formidiable, and'
the foe seemed to entertain little apprehension, 4itfe4r
that the French would venture to assail them, or that
their assault ^ottld' be attended by success

About eleven o'clock at night, by the light of the
moon, the chief of brigade of tbe brave 56th, at the
bead of several companies of grenadiers, marched silently
attrds* the great blocks of Stone and rock scattered here
and there, ranched the pafisftdees; climbed over therfi
amidst a sfadwei* of balls, and forded* their' enemies with
the bayoriet frdni work to work, €tili> full of terror, they
retired in dfeoi<der within the castle. During all this
time, the ca&tioi* Wtt» tfctindfering, and the firing of tte
Bdusketty indestiaritt Canister-shot, grferiades, and howit-
zers, for soma time checked the impetnosity,of the French.
Immense stones front the parapet were hurled1 down
with precipitancy Upon* the assailants, and crushed many
to'deatft on5 the spot. The chief of brigade hirffeelf was
thasiboVtally Wttratied. In tiftfr situation a retreat wfcfr
thought advfeatite; it Was effected without confusion' ; the
French having to regret the loss of a number ot intrepid
soldiers killed or badly wounded.

Itwab, ifr consequence, deemed' absolutely necessary
to* woft the fort. By drotof perseverance hi research, the
Fetich fiMntdV alter cttmbftig from one flight of steps to
another, tba* ike i^koalted Alfeteredtywas capable of btefog
so*feo5, whence fhey might, though' with inconceivable
difttfl9f> descent* again) or rather roll down the opposite

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 261

side* While ascending those steps, a. ■ battery i played
upon Umn unceasingly ; they, howejrer, took, the pre-
oatjtien, as they got up, .to incline ten or twelve. pace* rto
ttoe left, and were thus sheltered in .some -measure from

the enemy's i abet* Thi$, however, waa not the only

danger ; fpr,>before, they had ascended three parts of: the
way,; they /beoeuie 'openly exposed daring the space of ten
nutates.:. This ii¥M>nvewe«ce. suggested the expediency
e£< railing a light piece of four-pound ordnance to .the
spot; which, by incredible efforts, .was. accomplished,
through a *lifo ift the Jfock, though the height waa eight
he*dped yards, TWsrsingle, but serviceable guni fired
wJthjodtioterinMssionapon the enemy's battery, which it
juecessfolly (commanded* The 'advanced guard in Ibis
inenner ascended the roflk, theagh not lathe* extreme
difficulty, since thertroeps. were obliged to fellow, one by
one>o There, as on Mount St> Bernard, the s«4diei;* (aid
upon thefearms. The cavalry .were still more fetigued
than* the infantay* the bonses.beiegioWiged^HHe the native
goats, to .leap from' stone to stone,' tend feowefW apionieh-
iog.lbefaei, it iaoElo .less true,* thfttf.tgoided.by, a power-
fnl and unerring instinct, those animate k<BQlff how-to
avpid tl*e «ais&ntaae>o£ soiling headlong 4e*n the dread-
ful precipices. The French nevertheless lost in this
way a number of Chose valuable creatures, as well a& many

{..The .mode > of ascending the; cook, of AJbaredo was,
however, Jesa practicable than that of Mount St. Ber-
nard, yet it was deemed indispensable, in order to make
use. of the suburbs ex basseviUe, whatever might be the
cesl* as regarded, exposure. The most extraordinary
precautions were taken for the marching through the
streets*, Haybands were twisted round the carriage-
wheels, and the paved road covered with dung, in order
to deaden their sound as they proceeded. Thirty men
were harnessed, one before another, to a piece of ord-
nance, or ammunition-tumbril, ready to seize the moment
vol. II. — 23. o o

Digitized by

Google

fi82 TH'E LIFE OP

when they might make the least noise possible. The
enemy, however, were sometimes aware of what wafr
transacting; and would fire; upon which occasions the
French seldom failed to find some one among them killed
or wpunded. They then posted a cannon in the belfry
of the church in the suburbs, which was calculated to
batter in breach, and effectually demolish a tower above
the gate of the castle. Bat the foroes which defended
it, seeing themselves deprived of every help, and fearing
an assanlt, surrendered prisoners of war.

The First Consul proceeded several times, accom-
panied by General Bertbier, to view the works of the
enemy. He ascended the mountain on foot, and con-
tinued many hours upon its summit, whence the. eye coold
easily and fully survey the castle. Greatly fatigued by
the laborious ascent, and rendered faint by the extreme
heat of the weather, he laid himself down in the open
air, and fell asleep. Each individual, on filing before
him, could not but contemplate his person with peculiar
interest, and took particular care not to interrupt that
repose so necessary to his existence, but which had, as
it were, been forced upon him.

Having surmounted* these dangers and difficulties, the
enemy made a show of force at St Martin, and to attack
and drive them to Ivrea required only the necessary. time
to run over the intervening ground. In fact, a division
under General Boudet entered that place on the 23d of
May, by scaling the walls* The enemy had a garrison
in the citadel, and seemed, at first, determined to defend
the town, but they were too few in number to resist.
The French found fourteen pieces of cannon in the place,
with a proportionate quantity of ammunition, and made
two hundred prisoners, besides taking twice that number
in the pursuit towards Turin.

The Marqukate, in which Ivrea stands, was founded
by Charlemagne. It is situated partly in a plain and
upon a bill, containing about seven thousand inhabitants.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 283

There are still some remains of an ancient fortress, called
II CasteUazzo, supposed to have been built by Ardouin,
first Marquis of Ivrea. Its inhabitants are* the descen-
dants of a Roman colony, sent thither daring the sixth
consulship of Marias. It is aboat eight leagues north of
Turin, and is a bishop's see.

The main army, haying climed over the mountains of
Alharodo, in the manner before described, filed off by
this town, which seasonably famished the troops with
bread, wine, meat, and rice,; objects so indispensably
necessary for their subsistence. No sooner had they
been supplied with these articles, than their hearU were
again elated with joy ; and the preset* t abundance effaced ,
the remembrance of the cruel hardships and privations
previously endured. An incident here occurred, which
will show, in a striking manner, how little the enemy
seemed to have been prepared for the signal disasters which
were so speedily to follow*

Four or five thousand of the enemy having assembled
in baste from Turin and the adjacent garrisons, united
themselves to the number of two thousand which the
French having driven before them the preceding day,
then took up a position at Romagno, and intrenched
themselves* They were covered by a deep river, the
bridge of which had been cut down, by reason as it is
imagined of the contempt in which they held the French,
•from their entire ignorance of their force, as well as their
designs. They said, openly among themselves, that the
report of Bonaparte commanding this army in person was
false; that it was an adventurer who resembled him, or
it might be one of his brothers, who had put himself at
the head of a collection of Italian refugees, without
artillery and without cavalry ; that the French were only
throwing themselves away in this manner, in order fo divert
their main operations from before Genoa. One part of
them even boasted that they only feigned to retreat, in
order to draw their adversaries into more open ground,

• Digitized by

Google

284 THE LIFE OF

where they might cat them to pieces with ease. Bat the
valour of General Lannes, at the head of his advanced
guard, soon pat an end to these ridiculous stories and
vain hopes at the same time. Romagno was carried by
the bayonet; when the bridge and the redoubts were
soon cleared of the enemy. The dead and the wounded
were left on 'thee pot; and the fugitives were pursued as
far as the road to Turin. This was a dear lesson con-
cerning the bravery of those troops, whom they had *e
much despised. Their cavalry, indeed/ taking advan-
tage of an open ispaoe, and a favourable position, faced
about, and* charged the French infantry. From too much
ardour in the pursuit the latter had separated ; but the
lltfcaud 1J2th demi-brigades* of th0 hussars, being near
at>hand, were united* in a moment to • the 10th light, • and
to the 28th and 44th of the line ; when those troops again
drove off the enemy and performed prodigies of valour. *
On the following day, (May 96th,} Bonaparte, in order
the better to conceal his designs, caused two- divisions
to menace Turin, whilst the advanced guard, under Gene-
ral Lannes, immediately proceeded to the Cbiusella and
the Po. The. enemy was thus obliged to cross the latter
stream; where he took a position on its right bank White
the attention of the Austrians was thus occupied by the
movemeutsof these corps, the division- of cavalry, under
the orders of General Murat, took the route for Milan,
and>on< the 27th of May entered Vercelli, while on the
same day the Italian Legion, commanded by General
Lecehv descended the Sesia. The division oft General
Turveab advanced by Mount Genia, and 'took possession
of Suaa and the Brunette. A column of troops pene-
trated from the Simpldn, and, marching toward* Demo
d'OsoeHa, turned the Austrian position there, -on thnSSHi
of May. General Monoey's division, after passing Mount
St Gothard on the 26th, pushed its advanced guard to
Ariolo, driving tbe Austrian General Davidovicb td the
Lago Maggiore,. Jn the meantime General Lannetf

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 285

corps continued its march lb the Pa, which induced the
Anstrnms to believe it was his intention to take op a po-
sition at Asti, in order to intercept the troops on their
inarch from Nice to Turin. JBot the army, after a day's
halt at Chivasso, suddenly oiv the right of the 30th; pas*,
ed the Doria; and, skirting the Po, joined General
Maratiat Vercelli. ' v-

iTbe Staff of Ivrea, which was transferred to VeroeUs^
staid there but one night, removing next day to Novarro,
which the enemy bad evacuated in the morning. The
French left the latter ..place at midnight; the consular
guard forming part: of that corps. .Already many divh-
siops attended with the utmost impatience upon. the. banks
the Tessmo, waiting for the signal to cross the stream in
turn, and it was an interesting spectacle to witness the ga-
neroui disputes which then arose. Every one. was eager
torank an individual of the ffonorafe. division* - The iw-
pidity of the river bad destroyed the bridge of boats);
and/ to add to this misfortune, the French were without
the meads of constructing another. These were obsta-
cles sufficient to have stopped the progress of any other
than a republican army. A few ruinous wherries or bad-
ges, however were, icolleotedj in whieh the soldiers em-
barked; when shovels served. them for oars: Some
carabineers of the 6tb light infantry: darted forward,
under the protection of a well-directed fee of. musketry
and a few pieces of cannon;1 They were foitowedby the
grenadiers of the 38th, and -the opposite bank iwis pre-
sently cleared of the enemy.. As they had Uav infantry
than cavalry, j they were' obliged to -quit the marshes; us
also some osier fields, and a little woed*: wttcfri had i*
commoded them more than it bad served tbe» for pro-
tection* i:: -. '•; iL if i. ■ 'j t it... .'« i"' &.!•

Briffiuolo was the principal ptfnt Against which the
chief efforts of the French were directed. The passage
wa&acoomplished a league lower on. the Tessino, where
dm ttoeps menaced the enemy wito taking tbem feth*

Digitized by

Google

286 ™£ LlFE OF

rear. Finding themselves exposed to this danger they
thought it prudent to retire; on which the grenadiers
pursued them with eagerness into a village, the main
street of whiqh was sufficiently large to allow the cavalry
to act with good effect* At this precise moment General
Laudon had returned from Genoa ; and whether he was
apprised of the weakness of the French, or desirous of
ascertaining their strength, he led on, at full gallop, for
more than six miles, two cavalry divisions of Bussy's
legion, which fell upon the grenadiers, repossessed them-
selves of the village, and made about fifty or sixty pri-
soners. The remainder rallied without loss of time at
the entrance of the marsh, and stopped their further pro-
gress. But the enemy fell back as speedily as he had
advanced. By crossing oyer a hastily-constructed bridge
of boats, and by the favour of a dark night, the French
had already collected such a force on the other side as the
enemy did not venture to withstand.
These operations continued five days, during which

' the French had approached Milan, their entrance on
the 2d of June being unexpectedly retarded some hours,
by the indecision of the enemy. They hesitated whether
they should shut themselves up in the citadel, or have
sufficient time to receive succours and provisions. By
this means they greatly harassed the French advanced
guard ; and in this state of the two parties, several of
the inhabitants of the city fell victims of their desire to
see and communicate with the French. Besides those

* who were killed, many were wounded by the cannon from
the citadel. The consular guards avoided the shot by ta-
king a narrow bye-path across the gardens, which led to
the entrance^called the Gate of Pavia. A most tremen-
dous storm of rain then came on, which obliged the Con-
sul, and the Chief Staff, to take refuge in a small farm
near the road. . Besides the inconvenience from the bois-
terous weather, they were not yet perfectly free from the
danger of the enemy, who continued to rove about the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE fflj

country, and the advanced guard was not. wholly come op,
before an order arrived to press forwards the march of the
horse grenadiers.

Notwithstanding the mad and dirt with which the offi-
cers at head-quarters were covered, it was conceived they
made a figure sufficiently respectable and even brilliant,
not only to be complimented by the Magistracy of Milan,
bat also by the elegant ladies of the city, who joined in
the enthusiastic cries of Five Bonaparte ! vivtnt lei Fran-
fou! And the nearer they approached to the town, the
greater was the accompanying crowd. At length they
arrived within the gates of that distinguished capital of
the Milanese. The windows, lined with beautiful Italian
women, and the rich shops suffered to remain open, tes-
tified, in the strongest manner, the confidence of the peo-
ple in the French army, however great had been their
sufferings under die Russians, commanded by Suwarrow.
But the finest coup-d'ail — the moment the most flattering
to the spectator, was when the French had reached the
Place du Dome, and the hero who led them on enjoyed
the sublime trait which the gratitude of a numerous peo-
ple exhibited. That vast space rung with the reiterated
peals of Vive Giniral Bonaparte! vive VArmkt Franfoiil
Acclamations that penetrated the soul, and inspired the
victors with that pride to whioh their conquests were
justly entitled.

General Murat arrived with his division of cavalry, when
the infantry of the advanced guard surrounded the citadel,
in which four thousand of the enemy were found, who had
therein sought refuge.

After these precautions, the Consul proceeded to the
palace of the Archduke, in the grand square, which was
found so destitute as not to afford a single faggot of wood
wherewith to dry his clothes.

On every side the French national cockade bad been
substituted for that of Austria. They found three thou-
sand sick and wounded in the hospitals, among whom

Digitized by

Google

288 THE LIFE OF

were several Frenchmen. A groat. number, of Cisalpine
refugees entered toe Freaohservioe, who hud been toH
a fortnight before of the certainty of this happy event.
Bat a circumstance, which, peaceful science itself will
rejoice to learn,, was that .this victorious entry into Milan
gave liberty to the great Fontana, who had long groaned
under a weight, of chain*; far having bean, guilty of the
orime of QatepyiajB a pest in th^ Republic. ,

The chief strength of • tbjs eeJebiated oity^ built, by the
6anla«n the.thim hundred and ninety-fifth year of Rome,
is a. wall and rampart, as also a citadel,; oonsiatingttfiaiic
bastion*. ItJiaibeemhedeged forty times, taken twenty,
and firac tune* almost -totalty denw>Hahed ; yet,<wotwith-
sianding these t<and, other, calamities, it isuitvtves and
flourishes! there ia a) little iiiU near the city, eatte<l the
Bochetkt, which commands every part of the surrounding
country, and the g*eate^) portion- of » the, interior and *k-
terierworka. j Thisplaoe w nDt^oniHiandUvl on any side;
it is, well fortified, and'.cerefaUyiineintained.' Notwith-
standing this, however, it cannot withstand above eight
days of ope* trenches, being closely sunt up; and nothing
preventing the < trenches* from being opened by :an enemy,
so as io tatter in breach with advantage* The town is
beaatifal and large, nearly ten mileq in circumference,
and denominated' by the Italians, ^ Milan the: Gnat"
The streets are wide, while its churches, and, above
all, its cathedral may be said te deserve the highest ad-
miration. ' M- * .(

TheAmbrosian Library is the most striking object in
Milan, after the cathedral. The buildings, which, tare
appropriated to it have nothing very tnagnifieen t ab o
them ; but the saloon of the library, which is an oblong
square, sixty feet by twenty-four and thwty-isix in height,
is very fine. There were formerly reckoned to* be forty
thousand volumes of printed books and fifteen, thousand
manuscripts in this collection : but of late years the num-
ber has been considerably diminished. Among the manu-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOIEON BONAPARTE. 289

scripts are some uncommonly beautiful, and equally pre-
cious, comprising many of the Greek poets, such as
Htdod, JEsehylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Pindar, Lyco-
pkron> Moschta, Jristophanes, Theocritus, %c. Beneath
this gallery is placed the famous Madonna.

The French remained seven days in Milan, where
pleasures of every kind were within the reach of all those
who had the means of purchasing them, and thereby in-
demnifying themselves for their past privations. There
was no fear however of Milan becoming a Capua to the
French soldiers, under the command of Bonaparte. The
distribution of the rations was good and regular, and the
troops could not Jmve wished for better quarters.

Whilst the division of Loison took the road to Lodi,
the Cisalpine Legion marched upon Brescia, to have an ,
eye upon that charming country, which had changed its
masters seven times in twenty-eight years. Gen. Lannes,
always with the advanced guard, took possession of Pdtia
on the 5th of June, where he found considerable maga-
zines of provisions, nearly one hundred thousand weight
of powder, five hundred pieces of cannon on carriages, and
an equal proportion of ball ; besides the powder maga-
zines, and eight hundred sick and wounded Austrians.

The city of Pavia, once the capital of Lombardy, wa*
founded by the Gauls, but was soon afterwards taken by
the Romans; who, in their turn, were driven out by the
Goths in the fifth century. It fell into the bands of the
Lombards in 568, and in 774 into those of Charlemagne,
who founded its university. About 1477, the town, being
little better than a mass of ruins, was rebuilt, when it
changed its name of Tesinum for that of Pavia. It wad
before this city that Francis I. while besieging it, in 1525,
was taken prisoner by the Imperialists. Pavia has never
recovered its former splendour since it was sacked by the
French General Lantreck, in 1527.

During these successes of the French, General Melas
remained at Turin, while the greater part of his army was

vol. ii.— 24. p p

Digitized by

Google

200 THE LIFE OF

still concentrated before Genoa. Perhaps he continued to
despise the French force ; or, what is equally probable,
was only executing the orders of the Cabinet of Vienna,
which might have resolved on possessing that city, at
whatever rate it could be obtained. He despatched Ge-
neral O'Reilly to Placentia, and General Otto upon the
Tessino ; and lastly, he w&s desirous of operating a pow-
erful diversion in detaching six thousand men to Chivosso,
on the side of the Po. This party pushed their patroles
as far as Vercelli, where they set at liberty three hun-
dred Austrian prisoners taken by the French.

Without being a profound politician, every soldier saw
the necessity of a battle, which, however desirable to one
and the other army, would of course decide the fate of
Italy. It was requisite to banish the idep of those dan*
gers which surrounded on all points. Marat, however,
beat General O'Reilly at Placentia, possessed -himself of
that city, and blockaded the citadel ; when the latter, see-
ing by this reverse the possible danger of his retreat
towards Tuscany, fell back upon General Otto, at Stra-
dello and Montebello.

At this period the advanced guard, and all the rest of
the French drmy occupied a position onthePo, at a spot
where, by its junction with the Tessino, it is as deep as
the Rhine. They were no longer to fight with scattered
troops assembled, in haste as before, but with the. ad-
vanced guard of the Austrian army, from fifteen to eigh-
teen thousand strong, chosen troops to whom the French
had been represented as mere raw recruils, and who, in-
flamed by their late success under Scherejr, waited for their
adversaries, with a firm foot, on the bank of the river. In
short, -every thing that had taken place hitherto, might be
considered as mere amusement in comparison with what
was about to happen.

The French army now augmented every day. A strong
division of that of the Rhine, from which it had sepa-
rated under the walls of Ulm, after traversing the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. QQl

Orisons and crossed Mount St. Gotbard, and having bad
obstacles to overcome, and the threat of famine to straggle
witb on their passage, arrived just in time to share the
dangers and triumphs of their brethren. They had, how*
ever, been compelled to leave their artillery on the other
side of the mountain, for the sake of expedition.

The grenadiers and carabineers contended with impa-
tience for the honour of passing the river the first : the
battalions were also as eager to come to blows. The*
enemy appeared to despise their hardihood, by allowing
them leisure to disembark. But as two flying bridges
were established across the river, the numbers of the-
French who landed augmented every moment, and this,
tended to increase their intrepidity in a tenfold degree*
No sooner had all the advanced guard crossed, than the
French attacked the Austrians with a degree of fury ; the
latter nevertheless stood the shock with firmness.

At length Lannes ordered the charge, whose sang-froid
redoubled the efforts of his troops. The 6th light, the
28th of the line, and 44th, precipitated themselves on
the enemy with advanced bayonets, driving them into the
swamps, and following up as far as Stradella, upon the
road from Placentia to Tortona. Prudence at length re-
strained their impetuous valour from further pursuit, and
night coming on, every one spent that period in hopes
of terminating the struggle on the ensuing day.

The sun had scarcely risen above the horizon when the
advanced posts put themselves in motion. The enemy's
cannon played, and the several battalions took their re*
spective directions. The French light artillery, and that
of the Consular guard, returned their fire. Montebello,
which gave name to this sanguinary combat, was both
taken and retaken, and the eagerness was as great on
one side as on the other; but the numbers were very
unequal.

The advanced guard, about six thousand infantry and
our hundred cavalry, alone sustained the brunt of the

Digitized by

Google

292 THE LIFE OF

action for some time ; bat the division of Watrin was ap-
proaching, having effected its passage. Daring this in-
terval six of the; enemy's battalions, and several squa-
drons of fresh troops, bore hard apon the French,
advanced guard. Their numerous cavalry, too, profiting
by the advantage of an open meadow, charged the Utk
and 12th hussars. This onset was terribly and the car-
nage frightful; the enemy had the advantage for two
hours. At length General Watrin came up, and in an
instant changed the face of things. All the different
corps received the same impulsion, as it were simultane-
ously, and rushed on the enetny, who hesitated, staggered,
and soon after retired, as if swept away by an overwhelm-
ing torrent.

The standing corn, and especially the rye, with its lofty
straw, prevented the respective armies from distinguish-
ing each other clearly. They ran upon one another,
without knowing what foroq they were contending with ;
the bayonets crossed each other, dealing certain death on
all sides. An impetuous courage prevailed, and the Aus-
trians gave way, making precipitately for Voguera. Six..
thousand prisoners and twelve pieces of cannon were the
reward of this victory. Several generals and officers of
distinction in the Austrian army were among the killed
and wounded ; and the ground covored with the slain and
dying, proved to General Melas what were the soldiers
he had to contend with.

The French ascertained, by the prisoners, the fate of
Genoa, and its honourable capitulation. This unfortu-
nate intelligence produced a lively sensation on their
minds ; yet the success just obtained tempered, in a great
degree, the pain it occasioned. But that which for the
moment appeared a real calamity in their eyes, seemed
two days after only to increase their fame, as they had the
glory of combating all the Austrian forces united, and
gaining an ever-memorable victory.

The day after the battle of Montebello, the French

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 29 ft

head-quarters were removed to Voguera, — the army filing
through that town on its march to Tortona. On passing
under the window at which was stationed the Consul,
the troops beheld General Desaix, and an .emigrant
officer, who had been despatched to parley wityi him*
Upon this they endeavoured to display in their oounte*
nances and gestures the joy which reigned in their hearts.
The cries of Vive Bonaparte I tfhile the band played the
burlesque air, answering to the words " Nous luipercerons
leflanc" were observed to darken the aspect of the emi-
grant officer.

To capture 'Milan — to operate a junction with General
Moncey, who had marched from the Rhine with two
divisions — to cut off the rear of the enemy at Brescia,
Orci-Novi, Marcaria, and Placentia— to take their ma-
gazines— possess themselves of their dep6ts, their sick,
and their parks of guns, were the orders given to the
parties for their movements, while the main army was to
watch that of the onemy, beat up the Po, and effect the
passage of that river before Stradella. The activity of
all these movements gave to the French army what may
be properly considered the initiative, of which the genius
of Bonaparte knew how to profit.

The army came to its position before Tortona in co-
lumns, by divisions. The advanced guard quietly sur-
rounded the town. The day passed without any remark-
able occurrence. The French learned that for a certainty
the enemy's army had arrived from Genoa, and that its
head-quarters were at Alexandria.

On the morning of the 13th of June the army quitted
its position in the camp of Tortona, and marched towards
Alexandria. The advanced guard halted at San Juliano,* .

* A hamlet of three farms, a league from Tortona, and situated at
the entrance of the plain of Marengo. The Consul, and the thou-
sand men of his guard, the general staff of the army, and its enor-
mous suit, were heaped together at this spot, which , the day after,
served as the place of ambulance.

Digitized by

Google

294 THE LIFE OP

for the coming up of the army. As soon as it had arrived,
the whole moved on into the plain, in order for battle— all
the cavalry marching forwards in a body. The French found
die enemy at the bridge of the Bormido, whence a feeble
attempt was made to dislodge him* The dispositions of
the former sufficiently showed (hat they intended to offer
battle; bat whether from an irresolution in Melas, that
all his forces were not arrived from Genoa, or that he was
not sufficiently satisfied as to the stength and means of the
French, he refused the challenge.

The Consul, with his horse guards, and pieces of light
artillery, skirted Marengo. He was visible almost the
whole time, at a short distance traversipg the plain, ex-
amining the ground with attention, by turns profoundly
meditating, and issuing his orders.

The day began to close in, and the French had been on
horseback from the moment the morning had broken.
They bad also been soaked to the skin, for none of them,
the Consul not excepted, had put on a cloak. They
were often obliged to set foot to the ground to stretch
and revive their limbs, which had been benumbed by the
1 wet and the uncommon cold.

The French were joined by several deserters, and
some scattered prisoners who had been taken ; and among
others, an officer of Bossy's legion, wearing the cross of
. St. Louis. The General questioned them with conside-
rable earnestness, and all the prisoners were astonished,
when informed that the person to whom they had just been
speaking was Bonaparte.

The army passed the night at San Juliano, without any
disquietude concerning the morrow.

BATTLE OP MARBNGO.

The 14th of June commenced, and some discharges of
oannon by the advanced guard soon banished sleep. All
was soon in readiness, and breakfast was concluded as
speedily as had been the supper on the over night*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 295

We shall bow proceed to give the narrative, a? detailed
by an officer of the Consular guard, who continued, dur-
ing the battle, near the person of Bonaparte. "By eight
o'clock in the morning, the enemy had manifested much
vigour of preparation; he touched upon a few weak
points, and made certain dispositions in consequence;
but his intentions were not fully .known at head-quarters
till towards the latter part of the morning. Berthier was
the first upon the field of battle. Until this period the
various aides-de-camp had relieved each other while ap-
prising the Consul of the enemy's steps, and numerous
wounded soldiers arriving, acquainted us that the Aus-
trians were in great force.

" Upon these. tidings, the Consul mounted his favour-
ite charger at eleven o'clock, and made great haste to
the field of battle. Both cannon and musketry , on cer-
tain points, began now to be heard, and to approach
nearer and nearer* We were sorry to see so many, both
of cavalry and infantry, retire into the rear, wounded by
the fire of the onset. The enemy's line was extended
to the space of two leagues : for, it is necessary to re-
mark, that the Bormida, although generally rapid and
deep, was nevertheless fordable at several places. The
enemy was particularly tenacious of his position near the
bridge; but the principal point of action was at San
Stefano. From that point the enemy was. enabled to
gain Voguera ere we could, and thereby cut off our
retreat. They therefore incessantly directed their atten-
tion to this weak pointf By twelve o'clock we were well
» convinced we had the whole Austrian force against us,
and that the enemy now, in good earnest, accepted the
challenge which he had the day before declined.

" Our General was fully satisfied as to the measures
he had to pursue. Orders were given to the disposable
troops in the rear to come forward ; but the corps under
the command of Desaix was still at a considerable dis-
tance. The left wing, under the orders of Victor, began

Digitized by

Google

296 TIIE LlF? 0F

to give way ; and we perceived several corps of infantry
retire in disorder, as well as platoons of cavalry forced
back. The firing drew nearer ; in the centre a dreadfnl
discharge was heard, and ceased all at once on the Bor-
mida. I felt an inexpressible anxiety, yet still ventured
to flatter myself that oar troops advanced ; on the con-
trary, however, I saw them in a few minutes after return-
ing with but too much haste, carrying the wounded on
their shoulders — and on the part of the right wing I
also beheld, with concern, that the enemy gained insensibly
upon us.

" Bonaparte advanced in front, and exhorted to cou-
rage and firmness all the corps he met with ; it was visi-
ble that his presence re-animated them. Several soldiers
were observed to prefer absolute death in sustaining the
retreat to the displeasure they might cause him in being a
witness of their flight. From that moment his horse
guards no longer continued as before, near his person ;
but without being at any great distance from him, took
an active part in the battle.

" A cloud of Austrian cavalry debouched rapidly in the
plain, and formed itself before us in battle array, masking
several pieces of light artillery, which did not long delay
playing, to the destruction of our ranks. General Ber-
thier, who, at no great distance, had his eye upon the
movement of this column, was briskly charged by a part
of it, and forced to retire upon us. Murat, at the head
of the dragoons, took them in flank, protected the retreat
of our infantry, and preserved the right flank of Ge-
neral Victor.

" The foot grenadiers of the consular guard now came
up, in the same state they had always been beheld on
parade. They formed in the most orderly manner, in
subdivisions, and advanced against the enemy, whom they
met not a hundred paces from our front. Without artil-
lery or cavalry, to the number of five hundred only, they
had to endure the brunt of a victorious army. But,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 297

without considering the sbrtllhesft of tbeir numbers they
kept advancing, and forced every thing to give way on
tbeir passage/ * The lofty eagle; nevertheless, hovered
every where around them; and threatened to tear then* to
pieces. The very1 first ballet which struck them laid three
grenadiers and a ftmrrier dead on the grotnid, being iri
close order. Charged three times by the' cavalry, fusilU^
ded by the infantry within fifty paces, they surrounded
their colours and their wounded, and, in a hollow square,
exhausted all their founds of cartridges ; and then, wiffl
slow and regular steps, fell back and joined our astonished
rearguard. '

° Notwithstanding this, our artny fought, retreating in
every direction; the centre gave way, and the enemy
outstretched us and turned our right wing. On that side
especially, it was obvious they had the superiority in atf
eminent degree. On the left they might have reached out
head-quarters before we could. The garrison of Tortona,
discovering the almost routed condition of our anny, made
a sortie ; and thus we were nearly surrounded on every
side. *

" The Consul, who continued all this period in the centre,
encouraged the remains of the gallant corps which defen-
ded the road, and the defile it crossed, shut up on One side
by a wood, and on the other by some bushy vineyards of
lofty growth. The village of Marengo flanked this cruelly
memorable spot to the left.

" What torrents of blood were shed in that place !
what' numbers of brave men perished there ! An invinci-
ble courage had unceasingly to struggle against numbers
of the obstinate foe, perpetually increasing. Our artillery,
in pfert dismounted or taken, had but little ammunition:.
Thirty1 pieces of cannon, actively served by the eneiny,
cut in'lwo both men and trees, the branches of whidb, in
theitf fall, further crushed to death those who were before
wounded, and who had sought an insecure refuge under

them. '

vol. II.— 24. q q

Digitized by LjOOQIC

208 TI1E LIFE 0F

"In short, at four o'clock in the afternoon, . I have no
hesitation in saying, that for a line of five miles or more,
there did not stand six thousand infantry to their colours,
and only six pieces of cannon could be made any use of.
Letmenotbe accused of exaggeration in painting this
prodigious falling off; the causes of which are very easily
to be accounted for. A third of the army was actually
put Aors de combat : the deficiency of carriages for remov-
ing the sick and. wounded occasioned the necessity for
more than another third to be occupied in this painful ser-
vice ; not to speak of the plausible pretext this circum-
stance afforded to certain individuals (of which an army
always contains more or less) of absenting themselves at
so unseasonable a conjuncture from their respective corps..
Hunger, thirst, and fatigue, had imperiously forced a great
number of officers also to withdraw ; and every one knows
what effect the absence of officers occasions. The tirail-
leurs had, for the most part, lost the direction of their
corps : in short, what remained of the army occupied in
vigourously defending the defile already mentioned, knew
nothing of what had passed behind them. But let us
return to the sanguinary picture.

" At this awful crisis, when the dead and the dying
covered almost the whole -field, and the Consul seemed to
brave death, and to be near it, for the bullets were seen
more than once to plough up the ground between his
horse's legs ; in the midst of warriors, who fell on every
side, he was noted issuing his orders with his accustomed
sang-froid; and he saw the approaching tempest without
testifying any fear. All those who perceived him, forget-
ting the perils which they had to encounter, exclaimed —
S'ilattoit krt tail Pourquoi ne se retirt-t-il pa* f Suppose
he should be killed J why does he not withdraw ? thus signi-
fying their unwillingness that he should so endanger, his
person. It is said, too, that Berthier addressed him to the
jame effect I had the curiosity to listen attentively to his
voice, and to examine the traits of his countenance. The

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 299

most courageous man, the human being loving glory as
he did, might very well be moved, without any imputation
of a crime. Bat no ; the Bonaparte of Aroola— of Aboo-
kir, discovered no change in those moments of doubtful
fortune.

" Any one who, in those circumstances so terrible to
the French army, should have said, that in two hours from'
that time we should gain the battle, take 10,000 prisoners,
many generals officers, five stands of colours, forty pieces
of artillery ; have eleven strong places delivered into our
hands by the enemy, in fact, all the finest territory of Italy :
that in two days that enemy would, in a humiliated condi-
tion, file off through our ranks ; that an armistice would
suspend the scourge of war ; and, perhaps, finally bring
about peace and safety to our country :— such a man, I
repeat, would have appeared, by such silly hopes and pre-
dictions, as if only desirous of insulting our desperate
condition. How, then, were such wonders brought about?
But we will follow the course' of our narrative.

" The enemy, not being able to force the defile upon
which the greatest part of our fighting troops had doubled,
began to re-establish a most formidable line of artillery,
under protection of which he threw his infantry into the
vineyards and the woods. The cavalry, drawn up in
the rear, only waited the moment of our being driven out
of the defile, to fall upon our dispersed ranks and hew
them to pieces. Had this last misfortune happened to
us, all had been irretrievably lost ; the Consul must have
been taken or killed ; we should all have preferred dying
rather than survive. But Victory was not far distant :
Faithful to Bonaparte, she came at length to remain with
us, and to be our guide* Already had the divisions of
Monnier and Oesaix began to show themselves. Not-
withstanding a forced march of ten leagues, they arrived
at full gallop forgetful of their wants, and only thirsting
to avenge their fallen comrades. The crowds of wounded
and fugitives might well enough have damped their coo*

Digitized by

Google

m .... TPZMWOf

ragq; but? with eyes fixed on Desaix, bis soldiera only
thought of sharing bis dangers and flying to glory, Aias !
they jrereiar frojfl ^hin^ing that, in ai^ hour^ they woni4
qa*&? to be commanded by that brave General! The foot
grenadiers appeared again, covered with renown, and
W naming, with . their terrible bayonets, those who, a short
time past, had bargained for their caps* beforehand.

% " I most noif notice a fault of General Melas. On
discovering, from the most distant point, these reinforce-
meQtp, hope and joy .entered onr hearts ; whilst the enemy,,
harassed and fatigued with his own success, which had
however cost. him very dear, was always stopped by our
brave troops ; by those who, without being conscious of
the, .succours which were ^bout to arrive, were resolved
to perish in this new Thermopylae rather than make a
retrograde step.

"(general IkfoJps, finding too qiany obstacles in the
centre* thought that, \>y extending his wings, \\e might
surround us, apd thereby entirely cut us off. He, in con-
seqnenoe, directed great parf of his forces to those points,
imagining he had. sufficiently concealed bis movements,
and that he should be quite able to check us by his artil-
lery. Thus, not being able to discover what passed with
us, and ignorant of the reinforcements which had just
arrived, he laid the foundation for his own disaster. In
fyct, Bonaparte always .placed in the post of honour,
ai^Lta whose perspicacious eye nothing escaped, seized
this fayourpble opportunity : his orders flew every where
in a foment.

! " As soon as the first battalion of the division of J)esaix
had p reached .the heights, that General formed it in a
column. Every one kept ,his prescribed distance, each
received particular instructions. The Consul, the Gene-

* The soldiers of the legion of Bussy had collected the caps of the
grenadiers killed and wounded, and exhibited them to os by twirling"
them round on their sabres.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 301

ral-in-Chief (Berthier), the Generals, the Officers of the
Staff, ran though the ranks, and every where inspired that
confidence whioh precedes and ensures peat successes.
This work took up an hoar, which was a terrible one to
pass ; for. the Austrian artillery was bearing cruelly upon
us, Every discharge mowed down whole ranks. Their
bullets carried away with them both men and horses. The
troops received death amidst them in this manner, without
moving a step, except to close their ranks over the dead
bodies of their comrades. This thundering artillery
reached even the cavalry that rallied in the rear of us, as
well as a great number of foot-soldiers of different corps,
who,, encouraged by Desaix's division, which they had
seen pass, returned to the field of honour. What was
now to happen had been foreseen, and was calculated upon :
the battalions burnt with impatience ; the drummer's eye
fi*ed upon the dram-major's cane, waited for the signal ; —
the trumpeter, with his arm raised up, prepared his breath.
—The signal was given ; the terrible pas de charge re-
sounded. All the oorps were put in motion at once ; the
mettlesome fire of the French, like a torrent carried every
thing away that opposed its passage, and in a few minutes
the defile was freed from the enemy, who was every where
thrown down ; the fallen, the wounded, the dying, and
the dead, were all promiscuously trodden under foot.

" Every chief of a battalion, as he reached the back
of the defile, drew up his corps in battle array : and the
line then presented a formidable front. As fast as the
pieces of cannon could be brought up, they were employed
in battery, .and made great havock by their point-blank
shot, among the affrighted enemy. Those accordingly
fell back in their turn; their tremendous cavalry however
charged in a body with fury : but the musketry, — the bay-
onet stopped them suddenly — and one of their powder-
waggons blowing up, their alarm redoubled: the rising
disorder being hidden in the smoke, the exclamations of

Digitized by

Google

302 THE LIFE OP

the conquerors added to the terror of the vanquished ;
in short, all were in a fright — all gave way — all fled.

" The French cavalry then rashed into the plain, and by
its daring conduct concealed its smallness of number. It
advanced tQwards the enemy without the least fear of
being broken into. On the right, Desaix cleared hedges,
ditches, threw down and trampled on every thing he met.
To the left, Victor, his rival in swiftness, carried Marengo,
and flew towards the Bormida.

" The centre, with less force, and the cavalry, under the
orders of Marat, advanced majestically into the plain, al-
ways within half cannon's length. Marat greatly annoyed
the centre of the enemy, and by watching and following
his movements, kept an enormous body of cavalry in
check, which could only manoeuvre under the fire of
three eight-pounders and a howitzer. Our infantry was
' ready to turn them, having a shorter space to run over, in
order to reach the bridge, and thus cut off, in our. turn,
the principal point of their retreat. The intrepid Desaix,
having obliqued to the right upon San-Stefano, cat off
the Austrians' left wing entirely ; and at the same mo-
ment the younger Kellerman, with eight hundred horse,
collected from various regiments, made six thousand Hun-
garian grenadiers prisoners. General Zach, the head of
their Staff, was made prisoner by a horseman of the 21st
regiment.

" It was then in the very moment of his triumph, that,
after having Saved the army, and perhaps his country, the
friend and the model of brave men received a mortal
wound ! But let us suspend our affliction till we
have finished our recital, when we will return and be-
dew with tears the ensanguined remains of that precious
hero.

" Night was coining on ; the troops of the enemy in
disorder: cavalry, infantry, artillery; were heaped one
upon another towards the centre ; in the throng, many of

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 308

their own men were thrown off the bridge into the river.
The artillery, which they had drawn back at the com-
mencement of oar good fortune, for fear that by its being
taken it might be turned against themselves, was, in the
present circumstances, of more injury than use to them,
as it intercepted their passage. Mdrat, seeing the im-
portance of precipitating their retreat, and increasing
their coofasion, made us advance at full trot, when we, in
a short time, got before a part of their infantry, which had
no resource left but be made prisoners or cut to pieces.
The horse-grenadiers, and the chasseurs of the guard,
kept the right of the road, to the number of 200; four or
five hundred men of the 1st, 6th, 8th, dragoons, and
20th, of cavalry, occupied the left: the chief of brigade
Bessi&re, filled with the same ardour which inspired us .
all, and excited a desire in each oorps to distinguish
itself, gave orders for the trumpet to sound a charge,
that we might fall upon the enemy's infantry, already out
of breath.

" The Austrian cavalry, resolving to save the infantry,
came up to us in column, and their rapid pace obliged us
to give loose to the reins.* We inclined to the left, by
obliquing on them. At the distance of about thirty paces
was a ditch, which again separated us. We crossed it,
sword in hand, and surrounded the first two platoons, the

• Las Cases, in his journal, states that Napoleon, speaking of the
Austriansat the battle of Marengo, observed that they fought best upon
that occasion, and their troops proved admirable ; but that their va-
lour became extinct after that conflict, and was never apparent on any
subsequent occasion.

And in the following page he adds : " At Marengo the Austrian
soldiers preserved the remembrance of the conqueror at Castiglione,
Areola, and Rivoli ; his name was still present to their recollections;
but they were far from imagining that he was personally there ; they
imagined him dead; as care had been taken to instil into their heads
an idea of his having (alien in Egypt, and that the First Consul, of whom
they heard talk, was no other than his brother. So freely was this re-
port accredited, that Napoleon was under the necessity of publicly
showing himself at Milan in order to destroy this powerful illusion."

Digitized by

Google

304 ™ LIFE 0F

whole being bat the work of five minutes. Stunned by
this proceeding-, and probably intimidated by the height of
the men, whose, hairy caps deemed to add to their natural
stAtnre, they bat ill defended .themselves, ami were there-
fore eat down, or thrown into disorder. We made no
prisoners, nor did we take any horses. While all this
wa» performing, 'the dragoons took the same column
in . flank,, adding to the general carnage, and pur-"
sued them as far as the ravine, making a great many
prisoners.

*.* The paucity of onr numbers, the unfavourableness
of the ground, the night setting in, the extreme fatigue
of our horses, weakened by hunger, and more especially
ai this action took place under the eyes of a numerous
cavalry who might take their revenge, the prudent Marat
did not think it proper to let us expose ourselves farther,
to. increase the fruits of so successful a day's work : be-
sides which, our infantry, arriving almost' as soon as oar
tirailleurs, might not perhaps have time to rally in case we
had made a balf-turn.

" Thus ended this memorable day. The darkness
deprived as of the means of succouring all the wounded ;
a great number were left upon the field of battle, » when
the Austrians and the French, now becoming brethren*
from sad necessity, drew nearer to each other,' by cradl-
ing forwards as well as they could, and offering or seeking
mutual aid.

" Every one had lain where he was found, with his
knapsack on his back, and his firelock between his limbs ;
horsemen holding, as long as they could, their bridles in
their hands, and sleeping, both horses and riders without
any thing to eat or drink.

" The clock at Marengo struck ten, when we were
returning slowty towards San- Juliano. Numbers, harassed
with fatigue, bat more from want of sleep, dossed upon
their horses' backs, but were every instant roused by the
painful cries of those who were borne across firelocks or

.Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. flflfi

temporary hattd-harrows ; or of such as abandoned and
scattered in the folds, implored oar aid. Thus every hn»
mane and sensitive heart waa penetrated with that me*
leeoboly tp which the true soldier is no stranger, and
wbieh does bim so much honour. Horses, limping here
and there upon three legs, called to oar own by their
ine&fcctif e neighing*. At every step, too, it was necessary
to tarn oat of oar way, in order to avoid treading upon the
wounded. The ditches and *he roads often presented the
soene of caissons, and other carriages, as well as cannon,
overturned. Farther off we beheld houses devoured by
the flames, and tumbling upon the heads of their wretched
owners, half dead by the fears which bad driven them
to the expedient of biding themselves in the cellars and
other subterraneous places. The total darkness which
snrtfonnded us made the picture additionally frightful. Pri-
soners, not knowing tfhere to go, but with the hope of
escaping, wandered at random. If they were met by
French soldiers, bending under the weight of their com-
rade*, they were .forced to torn back, and bear on their
shoulders those respectable burdens."

As we oaonot too much expand on the subject of this
memnraMe oodfliot, we subjoin the following account, as
delivered by Bonaparte himself, of that momentous day.

" I arrived in Italy : I found myself behind the enemy,
and master of all his magazines and equipages ; I had
obtained great advantages, but, once arrived at Stra-
deUa, I had a right to consider the campaign as finished.
If Genoa had held out, I remained firm in my entrenched
camp at Stradella— ~ the strongest military position in Italy.
I had five bridges over the Pp ; which rendered my com*
numioations easy With the divisions, Chabran, Lapeyre,
Toman, and Moncey : in case of necessity, I could
either enmmon them to my aid, if attacked, or aid them
m ease they wnee. M. de Mebs, in short,, was forced,
hi order to toe able to open his cnmnrailioations, to come
and ofer me battle, on a ground which J myself had

vol. ii.— 24. R r

Digitized by

Google

306 THE LIFE Of

chosen ; extremely intersected, covered with wood, very
favourable to my infantry— the reverse for his cavalry;
and where I had the disposal of all my troops.

" The capture of Genoa changed the face of every
thing ; henceforward the enemy possessed a sure retreat;
and very strong positions : he could either retire into
Genoa, and defend himself therein— deriving his provi-
sion 5 from the sea ; or line the heights of Bobbio with
artillery, and retire, in spite of my efforts to oppose him,
into Plucentia, regain Mantua and Peschiara, put him-
self into communication with Austria, and reduce me to
an ordinary war. All my plan of the campaign would
have been frustrated ; a great chance presented itself to
me— I risked it — I set out. from Milan, and traversed
thirty-two leagues in seven boors : I commanded the
battle of Montebello — we gained it, and this victory
caused the enemy's retreat from Genoa. But this same
advantage weakened my army— I was obliged to leave two
divisions on the other side of the Po, to close the entrance
of the states of Milan ; they were not, to say the troth,
distant from me above three leagues — but they would re-
quire three days to traverse them ; they must have passed
by Placentia, or by Stradella. I had also against me
another disadvantage — the country, from Montebello to
Alexandria, is nothing but an immense plain, most ad-
vantageous for the Austrian cavalry ; I nevertheless re-
solved to offer a pitched battle, because I was in an
extraordinary situation, and that I risked little to gain
much. If beaten, I should have retired into my intrenched
camp of Stradella ; passed the Po by my five bridges,
protected by my batteries; without the possibility of
the enemy's army being able to prevent it: and I should
have united my second division with the corps of Moncey,
Leechy, and Turreau. I suffered one corps of Melas to
pass the Po (and he desired no better); then, superior in
numbers, I could have attacked him with all my forces; if
I beat him. Conqueror — I obtained the same results ; his

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 307

army, pent up between us and the river, would have
been forced to have laid down its arms, or to have sur-
rendered all the forts. Had I been beaten, which I '
believe impossible, I brought myself to a regular warfare ;
having Switzerland for my support.

" Determined to give battle, I ordered an account of
the effective strength of my army to be rendered to me:
I had in all twenty-six thousand men ; M. de Melas had
forty thousand, eighteen thousand of whom were cavalry.
At two o'clock in the morning they came to inform me
that the enemy had fallen on our advanced guard, and
that our troops gave way : the French do not like to be
attacked. Our troops fell back somewhat in disorder ; and
others betook themselves to flight : the enemy possessed
himself of some prisoners — we had retreated a league and
a half. The generals of the • advanced guard, Lasnes,
Murat, and Berthier, sent me courier after courier ; they
told me that their troops were in flight, that they could not
stop them — they asked for support, and requested me to
march with my reserve. I replied to all — " Hold out as
long as possible— if you cannot, fall back." I perceived
that the enemy had not yet brought up his reserve, and, in
these kind of affairs, the great object is to make the
adversary employ all his forces, in managing your own;
and to force him to attack at right and at left, as long as
you cannot be deceived, the difficulty being to make him
employ his reserve. He had thirty-four thousand men
against, at most, twenty thousand, who were in flight, and
had, therefore, but to pursue his advantage : I repaired to
the first line in an elegant uniform-— I attacked them my-
self with a demi-brigade — I broke their order of battle— I
pierced their line. M. de Melas, who saw me at the
head of the army, and his lines forced, imagined that I
bad arrived with the reserve to reinforce the combat — he
advanced on this point with his own, six thousand Hun-
garian grenadiers, the flower of their infantry ; this corps
filled up the vacancy, and attacked us in turn. Seeing this,

Digitized by

Google

308 THE LtFE aF

I gave way ; and, in a retreat of half a league*, exposed
to their cannon, I rallied all the army, and reformed it in
order 6f battle; arrived near my reserve, vhioh w«*
composed of six thousand men, had fifteen pieces of
artillery, and Desaix for general, that being my sto*
anchor — I opened, by an extremely rapid movement, the
whole army* I formed the two wing's of Desaix, and I
showed them six thousand fresh troops. A tremeftdeotl
discharge of artillery, and a desperate charge, at the. point
of the bayonet, broke their line, and oat their Wo wing* :
I then ordered Kellermann to attack them with eight
hundred horse, and, as cavalry march quicker thaa .in-
fantry, they cat off from the rest of their nrtny thesis
thousand Hungarian grenadiers, in sight of the Austrian
cavalry ; but this was half a league off; they requited a
quarter of an hour to arrive — and I h&ve always observed
that it is then quarters of an hour which decide the fate
of batiks. Kellermana's troops threw the gtenadiers
towards our infantry— they were instantly made prison***.
The Austrian cavalry then arrived ; but oqr infantry waa
in line — its cannon in the front— a fine discbarge, and a
barrier of bayonets, prevented their attack ; they retteed
somewhat in disorder : I pressed them with three regi-
ments which had just joined me; they deployed; and,
in seeking to pass the bridge of Borunda, which is very
narrow, a great many were drowned in the river. They
were pursued till night.

" I learned, after the battle, from several general
officers (prisoners), that, in the midst of their successes
they were not without disquietude ; having a secret p*0+
Sentiment of their defeat. During the contest tbey qto**
tioned our prisoners, asking them, " Where U GeneraJ
Bonaparte?"— "He is in the rear," they replied; and
those who bad already fought against me in Italy, know*
ing iny custom to reserve myself fbr the end, exdaimed,
" Our day's work is not yet done"

" They confessed also that when I showed myself at

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEOIf BONAPARTE. 300

ibe firtft lite, the; were completely deceived, and that
they belie Yed all my reserve vras engaged. In battle*
there is uniformly a moment, vqhen all tie brav$ mm ha*
done &eir be*, when they seek nothipg better than to
ran sway ; bat these are misgivings of the heart, they
want a pretest— the talent is to give then one."

We now resume the account a& detailed by the officer
of the Consular guard:

4* At length arrived at head-quarters, which served as
the ambulance to the army, every one stowed himself,
as he could, among the dying and the dead, the piercing
cries of the. former being no longer sufficient to surmount
the violent tendency to sleep. The ensuing morning
hanger in turn prevailed. I, in a melancholy condition,
entered the great court, to seek something for myself and
bones to eat, when I was struck with so horrible a sight,
that my wbote frame shuddered. More than three thousand
Frenchman antf Austrian*, heaped one upon another in the
yard, fa the . granaries, in the stables and out-bouses*
even to the very, cellars and vaults, were ottering the
most lamentable cries, blended with the severest curses
against the surgeons, there being too few te dress all the
wptwded et once, Every where I beard the languishing
voices of comrades, or of my particular friends, who
fcegged eometfcieg to eat or drink. AIL that I oonld de
was to procure them a little water. In truth, forgetting
my own Wants and those of my horses, I staid more
thao tire hours, running backwards and forwards, per*
forming, by turn?, the part of a surgeon and an hospital
attendant;

44 Prieoaers were brought in from every quarter, which
increased the number of the famished. In short, this
Mt a day of apparent insupportable .length te ail of us.
However, an event, which gave* birth to a greyit many
cetyeetares, moderated, in some degree, our endless .dis-
quietudes. An Austrian officer came to parley, and a
French ajd*de~camp set out immediately for Alexandria.

Digitized by

Google

310 TUB LIFE OF

No one knew any thing of this business, and yet every
one made a gazette of it, after his own mariner. Ber-
thier went off to the same place about noon, leaving us all
in the greatest expectation, for rio one dared to hope for
that which we learned the next day to have been ob-
tained. We were early in the morning informed of the
news of the armistice, which filled the French army
with a joy never before experienced ; whilst that of the
Austrian, storming with rage, filed off the next and suc-
ceeding days before us, on the field of battle, still reeking
with their own and our blood, while the dead carcases
began to taint the air with putrid exhalations*

" Supplies of subsistence and other necessaries ' at
length began to arrive, as well as carriages for the con-
veyance of the sick. A fraternal partition of these com-
forts was made among all the victims of that bloody day.
Without any disquietude or jealousy, the Austrian and
Frenchman were observed together, who, two days be-
fore, would have cut one another's throats. They were
seen to receive from the same hands, under the same
roof, in the same chamber, the requisite help and the
urgent cares of succouring humanity.

" On the 16th of June, the prisoners taken from us
were restored, and. the Consul set out for Milan in haste,
escorted by a party of chasseurs. The rumour of our
being defeated having ran through that city, had dis-
tressed the friends of liberty, and filled their hearts with
chagrin and horror: but the contrary account of the great
events which had just taken place,— the publication of our
exploits,— and still more the presence of Bonaparte,
changed their sad uncertainty into real enthusiasm. The
national guard and ' the provisional government were
directly organized. The Consul, General Berthier and
all his chief staff were present, with an immense number
of people, at a Te-deum, which was sung inr gratitude for
our triumphs.

" The citadel of Milan agreeing to surrender, the gar-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 3H

rison, to the number of 4000, marched oat with the ho-
nours of war, one half of which deserted immediately
after. . A Piedmontese battalion came over to us with
arms and baggage, and colours flying, all the French
soldiers of Bossy's and Rohan's divisions also entered oar
ranks, none bat the officers remaining, and I am con-
vinced that in eight days not less than fifteen thousand
men deserted, almost all Frenchmen, taken daring the-
retreat of Scherer. ' There were found in the hospital,
nearly fifteen thousand sick and wounded ; the number of
dead made pretty nearly as many, so that the whole, loss
of the enemy (including those taken prisoners since oar de-
scent from Mount St. Bernard) in the course of this rapid
campaign, amounted to sixty-five thousand men ; a loss
which, however enormous it may appear, is nevertheless
not exaggerated.

" I have need of indulgence from the reader,, no doubt,
for several digressions with which I have interrupted the
coarse of my recital ; but I have endeavoured not to
abase it; and that has engaged me to reserve for the end
of my narrative, certain characteristic traits and inter-
esting facts, nearly conneoted with the conquest of Ma-
rengo and the events of that memorable day; rather than
pass them over in silence. Lastly, our enterprise cannot
better terminate than by strewing a few flowers over the
grave of the inestimable Desaix.

" It has been shown, in the coarse of this recital,
with what humanity, and even fraternity, we. treated
the Aostrians. Nevertheless we had many complaints to
make against them ; and it may be said, that in the whole
course of this long and terrible war against liberty, bat
more especially daring the day of the battle of Marengo
and those which preceded, it, they did not show that re-
gard for the French which a generous enemy always
feels for a valiant though conquered foe. Daring twelve
hours they had the upper band of us, yet could it be be-
lieved that they made only eleven, hundred prisoners, of

Digitized by

Google

312 THE LIFE OF

which twenty-fife were of the Consular guard ! They must
necessarily hare had many more; bat, inflated with their
. success, they did not imagine that we should ever be; able
to bring back victory to our standards; and they there-
fere treated us without mercy.

" The priests of Alexandria manifested a baseness and
cruelty towards us, for which it may be proper to brand
them with ignominy. In the beginning of the action some
trench prisoners were conducted to Alexandria. The
priests announced their entry by the ringing of bells, * halm
cries of victory and enthusiastic joy assailed the ears of
the captured. Thus far, however, it bright be thought
lawful, since they were allowed to prefer the Austrian to
the Frenchman; but they dared to revile as with foul
names, and even to strike the unfortunate, who had not the
means of self-defence ! nay, they went so far as to exhibit
poinards to them ! Yet mark— tho&e very men, two fcotirs
after, (events had changed the face of things,) dared offer
to shake bands with us ! Nothing is mere shocking. than
the eagerness with which the Austrian strips off the speib
of his prisoner ; not one among as preserved bis aaok, his
bat, his cravat, or his shoes. They snatched from many
Frenchmen the rings out of their ears, without giving
them time to unlock them* We are positively assured,
also, that they sabred several of our comrades three or ftmr
hours after they had been taken ; and it is added, that
this »no uncommon case among them. It will be readily
admitted, that, after snch information had been received,
it was well for them that they were exchanged the
following day. How ought they to have bfaehed, tm
seeing with what lenity and goodnature we conducted
them to Milan. Not one was struck or insetted; all
preserved their little effects, and they followed the
route as they pleased, attended quietly by a mere hand-'
JU of Frenchmen.

"Let us, however, console ourselves for those actsef
barbarity we bare mentioned, by the recital of a trait of ge-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 313

neron* humanity. A chasseur on foot, belonging to the
Consular guard, covered with woundp, lay almost dead
on the field of battle, at the moment of our retjreaj;.
Some soldiers of Bussy's legion surrounded him, and '
disputed among themselves for bis spoils. Nothing was
le$ to be disposed of but his coat, of which they had al-
ready stripped him, when an. Austrian colonel by chance
cf me up, who driving away those inhuman fellows with
his cane, and at first taking the Frenchman for an officer,
inquired to what eorps he belonged ?— I am one of the
gua/d of the First Consul, replied the chasseur. . After
paying a compliment to that body of men, the Austrian
ojde/ed Jiis surgeon to be called, when the wounded pri-
soner was dressed in his presence, and then carried to the
aytffulautt. Some Jbours aftqr, when tfie Austrian* fell
b$ck in their turn, this generous officer came again to
offer him his services, in order to have bim transported to
Alexandria : the chaaseur, who saw his deliverance near,
thajuked him for his generous care and concern, but re-
presented that Itys wounds were too serious to. allow hpn
to bqar the motion of the conveyance. In a short time
after, .he found himself in the midst of his comrades.

" At the jpoment.when our weapons were about to clash
with those of the .qnemy, an Austrian horseman, thrown
.down, lifted up ,his arms towards us, and supplicated that
we would not trample him to death. Beasieres, chief
of brigade, perceived him : ' My friends,' said he to us,
' open your ranks ; let us spare that unfortunate man/

V It may be said that Marengo was tlje glorious patri-
mony of ail who fought there. There was not one corps
—scarce a single soldier— who did not gather sope laurels.
But as I consider myself engaged to detail ail I saw and
was satisfactorily informed of, I shall just touch on (wo
qr th^q? .occurrences which could not well enter into the
body of ipy narrative. The modesty of the <?pueral in
Chief made him silent, in his report, concernin&the dan-
ger he ran, having had his clothes pierced through, while

vol. ii. — 24. s s

Digitized by

Google

314 THE LIFE OF

more than once death advanced on every side towards
him. If we call to mind,- at the same time, that his ad-
versary, GeneralMelas, had a contusion in his arm, and
two horses killed under him, we may thence easily judge
wltat efforts the two armies made, when the chiefs thus
exposed themselves in their country's cause and their own
glory.

" The brother of General Watrin was killed ; and Ge-
nerals Chamberlain and Marmont were wounded.

" Who does not regret that be had not to fight in the
96th demi-brigade? Who would not willingly have been in
the rank with the formidable grenadiers, who acted like
the Greeks when they sustained the efforts of the whole
Persian army at the Straits of Thermopylae? — With the
6th light, the 28th of the line, the 40th, and the 44th, 50th,
&c. &c. who can enumerate almost as many battles they
have fought as they have been days in Italy ?

" What charge swere made and withstood by our horse !
What boldness was displayed by the 20th regiment
of cavalry, which concealed and compensated for the
weakness of its numbers by feats of dauntless bravery !
What* intrepidity in the eight hundred cavaliers of the
1st, 2d, 3d, 5th, 21st, and 23d regiments, conducted by
the younger Kellerman, who made 6000 grenadiers, cho-
sen troops of the enemy, lay down their arms, and by
whose success a wavering victory was secured. Our ar-
tillery was spread in very small numbers, and still less
provided for'; but how many of these inconveniences,
owing to circumstances, were ably repaired by the manner
in which they were served, and by the prodigies they per-
formed, in order, as it were, to multiply themselves ! In
every place where necessity called them — always in bat-
tery at forty paces in front, they braved the .fire of triple,
nay quadruple, the weight of their own metal, at the same
time levelling and firing with coolness, justness, and
promtitude. But it was Marmont who bad the direc-
tion of them!

Digitized, by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 3J5

" The loss of the Consular guard was considerable .
only in infantry. Out of five hundred men, there were two
hundred and fifty-eight killed, or put korsde combat. The
cavalry, out of two hundred, had a tenth of that number
in killed and wounded ; and about as many horses were
disabled. The light artillery was almost all dismounted,
and the train-horses killed; but, by unexampled good
fortune, only one man was absolutely killed, and but a
very few wounded.

" After a slight examination, the best estimate I was
enabled to form of our respective forces, I judged that
the French army at the moment the battle commenced,
must have been composed of from forty to forty-five thou-
sand men, of which three thousand were cavalry ; that it
had from twenty-five to thirty pieces of cannon, in which
were two companies of light artillery.

" The Austrian army, according to the accounts of the
best informed persons, contained, in spite of the loss in
their preceding battles, the garrisons which we com-
pelled to surrender, as well as those which kept the places
still in their power — their army, . I say, after all these
deductions, still comprised from fifty-five to sixty thousand
men, including the reinforcements which bad just arrived
from Genoa. From fifteen to eighteen thousand of those
were cavalry ; and they had more than fourscore pieces of
cannon, two hundred ammunition-waggons well provided,
besides an immense train of army implements and equi-
page. It is well known that we were not much encum-
bered with these last mentioned articles, and that, for
want of caissons, we were obliged to put our ammunition
upon tumbrils drawn by oxen, and that the little we
brought into action in this manner was soon exhausted !

" It is not to be concealed that this victory cost the Re-
public dear, by the loss of a great number of its brave
defenders, and Desaix, one of its ablest generals ; but
let it be considered, that it was necessary it should be ob-
tained, to save the south from a frightful devastation. We

Digitized by

Google

316 THE LIFE OF

in consequence beheld Italy secured, and 4» armistice
concluded which was to end in a much desired and
glorious peace. We had consequently most powerful rea-
sons for calming those regrets, which oar losses in the first
instance occasioned .**

Convention between the French and Imperial Armies in Ithly.

The morning after the memorable battle, the gene-
rals entered into the treaty, of which the following are the
Articles.

Art. I. There shall be an armistice and suspension of
hostilities between the armies of his Imperial Majesty and
that of the French Republic in Italy, until an answer is
received from the Court of Vienna.

• The conflict at Marengo.was undoubtedly that in which Bonaparte
displayed the most brilliant proofs of military capacity j for, on that
momentous day he manifested the consummate tactics of a great com-
mander; neither was there any deficiency of those traits of heroism
which history always. loves to record, and whtch must descend to the
remotest posterity. It was during this battle, which might be- justly
termed the modern Pharsalia,T that Napoleon preserved, amidst the
tumultuous din of arms, and an army almost completely routed, that
coolness and certain dependance upon self, which was the fruit of long
inilitary experience, and a characteristic of the truly brave. We
shall now proceed to detail some of his most remarkable words upon
that occasion.

As soon as the divisions of Lemonier and Desaix had arrived, Bo-
naparte repaired to range them in order for battle : but, as the enemy's
forces were greatly superior in number to those, of the French, the -
latter began to give way, and retreat j which, being perceived by
Napoleon,, he galloped to the front of the ranks, exclaiming: —
Frenchmen! remember my custom is to sleep upon the field qf buttle.

Berthier on arriving to acquaint him that the army began to be put
to the route, he made this answer: «* You do not announce tkdt, gene-
ral, in cool blood i " During the hottest period of the action news was
brought to Bonaparte that Desaix was no more, upon which, placing
his hand upon his forehead, he only uttered these words : " "Wny is it
not permitted me to weep 1*

After the conflict Napoleon happening to meet a great Dumber of
the wounded, made the following remark in' tones of the deepest affile-*
{ion: " We cannot hut regret tfte hot being wduiidedUkc them, '6»
orier that we might participate in their sufferings."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 317

A*t II. The army of his Imperial Majesty shall oc-
copy all the country comprised between the Mineio and
Foeaa-Maeatra, and the Pe ; that is to say, Peschiera,
Mantua* Botgofotte, and thence the whole left bank of
the Po : and en the right bank, the city and the citadel
of PetrAra;

Art. III. The army of his Imperial Majesty shall also
odeupy Tuseany and Aricoua.

Art. IV. The French army shall occupy the country
comprised between the GfctOsa, the Oglit>, and the Po.

AM. V. lie oeentiry between the Chiesa and the Min-
eio shall not be occupied by eithetr of the two armies.
The army of his Imperial Majesty iflay draw subsistence
for his troops from those parts of the country which con-
stituted part of the Duchy of Mantua. The Freuoh
army shall draw subsistence from those countries whioh
made a part of the Province of Brescia.

Art VI. The casftes, of Toitona, Alexandria, Milan, '
Tnim, Pissdghitone, Aifona, and Phtoentta, ahull be put
into possession of the Fi'ench army, between the 16th and
the 2Mb of June.

Art. VII. Cony, the castles of Cev*, Savonna, and
the eity of Genoa, shall also be put into the hands ef the
French army* bettreea the 16th and 24th of June.

Art. VIII. Fort Urbino shall be surrendered ap on the
26th of June.

Art. IX. The artfiery of the etfverat pieces shall be
classed in the following manner r— Fiwt, all the artillery
of the Austrian calibre *nd foundery shall belong to the
Austria* army.— Secondly, that of the Italian, Piedmon.
tese, and French calibre and foundery shall belong to
fee French army.— Thirdly, the previsions and forage
shall be shared between them; one half at the disposal
of the Cbnunisaaiy ef the French amy, the other at
the discretion of the directing Cofltonfestfty of the Aus-
trian forces* .

Ait. X. The garrisons shall nafth out with mUttajry

Digitized by

Google

318 THE LIFE OF

lionours, and repair with arms and baggage, by the short-
est route, to Mantua.

Art. XI. The Austrian army shall repair to Mantua,
by Placentia, in three columns; the first between the
16th and the 20th of June ; the second between the 20th
and the 24th, and the third between the 24th and 26th of
the same month.

Art. XII. The Generals St. Julien of Schevertincb,
of the Artillery; Burn, of the Engineers; Telsiege,
Commissary of Provisions ; Dejean, Counsellor of State ;
Darn, Inspector of Revenues ; Adjutant-General Leo-
pold Stabenzath; and the Chief of Brigade of Artillery,
Mosset, are named Commissaries for carrying the present'
convention into effect, whether in relation to the forming
of inventories, providing subsistence or conveyances for
the troops, or for any other object.

Art. XIII. No individual shall be ill-treated on ac-
count of any service rendered the Austrian army, or for
any political opinions. The Austrian General engages to
release all persons in the strong places under his command,
who may have been taken up in the Cisalpine Republic
for political opinions.

Art. XIV. Whatever may be the answer from Vienna,
neither of the two armies shall attack the. other until
after giving ten days previous notice.

Art. XV. During the suspension of arms, neither of
the armies shall send detachments into Germany.
Alexandria, 15th of June, 1800.

(Signed) . L.S. Alexander Berthier.
L.S. Melas, General of Cavalry.

While these articles were signing, Bonaparte prepared
to return to Milan, in order to re-organize the Cisalpine
Republic. Before he set off, he made General Melas a
present of a Turkish sabre, brought from Egypt. The
latter said to Lauc6e, Bonaparte's Aid-de-Camp, who de-
livered it to him : " I am sorry peace is so long delayed ;

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 31 Q

I shall contribute my efforts to obtain it, that I may g* and
see Bonaparte at Paris ; I would even go to see him in

Egypt-"

Death and Character of General Desaix*

How noble, how amiable, how laudable were the re-
grets of the conquerors of Marengo, while they reflected
on the loss they had of a friend, and of a model, in the per-
son of General Desaix ; I shall remember as long as Hive
(says the officer before quoted) the sad impression made
on my mind the day after the battle, when I went to head
quarters, and beheld the carriage which conveyed the
corpse of that General, wrapped in a cloth and covered
with his cloak. It was then on its way to Milan : it was
in vain I figured to myself, that a few hours before he
commanded the incomparable 9th demi-brigade, he who
made so many fine manoeuvres, under a terrible fire
and in the most imminent danger. Every eye was mois-
tened with tears, while looking on the inanimate blood-
stained corpse.

Desaix was born in the month of August, 1768, in the
department of Puy-de-Dome, at a short distance from
Riom. His parents were of noble birth and devoted, for
several generations, to military service. His cradle was
consequently surrounded by all those prejudices, and
ideas of superiority, with which pride and flattery always
seek to intoxicate the minds of children of the privileged
classes ; but reason, and- his own good understanding,
placed him out of reach of the seductions of vanity. He
was brought up at the Military School of Efiat, where
the able qualities by which he was distinguished gained
him the friendship of his school-fellows. They passed a
simple, but,, from the mouth of children an expressive
eulogium on him, when they said, " C'est un bon cama-
rade" like that which the soldiers under his command
were subsequently accustomed to do when speaking of him
with an effusion of sentiment, " C'eet un brave hommeJ9

Digitized by

Google

aao TIIE LIFE OF

He bad a soul too elevated to follow the ordinary rou-
tine in which fortune had placed him. ExaJtod by that
species of instinct which gives to real genius the wonted
activity for unfolding itself, he experienced a passion for
instruction in every thing, before he was able to calculate
its advantages, Desaix soon knew how to torn the les-
snns of. bis masters to profit, and to cultivate the happy
disposition of his mind, at a time when instruction was
almost as rare as useless, among men of las class, be-
cause therein birth and riches assumed precedence aver
emery other consideration.

Although he gave himself up to those .various stadias
which might enable him <p distinguish himself in the mi-
Utacy art, to which he was destined, there was nothing
attracted him so much as the history of the repub-
lics of Greece and Rome. His imagination was inflamed
by reading the exalted acts and traits tf virtue, which
illustrated so many gze&t men in whom those republics
prided themselves.

Equally penetrated with admiration for the victor
over Hannibal and the conqueror of the Persians at Ma-
rathon, he rather formed the wish than flattered him-
self he should one day be able to tread in their steps.
His soul cherished the equally noble desire of imitating
the virtues of A lis tides, and die courageous devotion of
lieenidps. And as if he 'had felt at that time the sorrow-
ful presentiment whioh has since been realised, he was
moved with pity at the premature death of Epawmondas,
io whose «ad but glorious destiny he recalls .our temeip-
•brance.

•Such was the exposition of mind and heart in Desaix,
while a Mbdieutenant in the infantry regiment 4$ Bre-
imyne, when .the moment of liberty was. announced to the
-French, whioh opened the career of glory to all those whose
.virtues and talents gave them a right or pretence Io be
employed. The revolution offered him too many xoads
for *ealim>g the liberal ideas be had entertained, not to

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 32 J

-become its partisan ; and he had too good an understand-
ing, and too much philosophy, not to adopt its principles.
He therefore resisted all die seductions, all the menaces,
and even the insulting railleries which were employed to
make him desert his country.

He fought solely for the glory of the French name.
He was even ignorant of the denomination of those too*
multiplied epochs of the revolution, and of which each
party prided itself: in amends for which, he knew all the
fields of battle, every approved manoeuvre, and all those
*cts of heroism which threw a lustre over the first years
of the Republic.

He went into camp with his regiment in 1792. His
zeal and activity soon distinguished him to Generals Vic*
tor, Broglio, and Custines, who successively employed him
us an Aid-de-camp and Captain-adjutant to the. Chief
Staff. But he manifested so much talent and bravery in
several unfortunate circumstances, where his presence of
mind and advice stopped the course of that ill success the
army experienced, especially at the taking of the lines of
Wessemburgh, that the deputies then on mission did not
hesitate to confer the title of General of Brigade upon
him. He fully justified their choice ; for, on every occasion
where he was entrusted to direct an attack or to defend a
post, he bad the advantage over the enemy. His suc-
cesses first began to elevate or rather repair the morals
of the soldiers, after the defeats they had experienced in
the departments of the Rhine, and he more especially set
them an example of constancy and bravery. Wopnded at
the affair of Latterburgh, by a musket ball which passed
through both cheeks, he never quitted the field of battle,
and would not admit of his wounds being dressed, till after
he had rallied the battalions which were in disorder. On
this account it was, that the French and Austria]) sol*
diers gave him the surname of Le guerrier sans peur et
9ans reprocke, (The warrior without fear and without
reproach).

vol. II. 24. t t

Digitized by

Google

322 THE ^FE 0F

Yet, notwithstanding bis virtues and his successes, dar-
ing the revolutionary delirium, the Committee. of Public
Safety twice ordered him to be dismissed. The General
in Chief, however, who commanded the army of the
Rhine, as constantly refused ; and Desaix remained ig-
norant of snch orders till the very moment when, covered
with laurels which he had gathered at the raising the
blockade of Landau, he had the satisfaction to see the
whole army oppose itself to the execution of a third order
for his dismissal, brought by a deputy of the convention,
a man who had the good sense to concede to the wish
of the soldiers openly expressed, viz. that they might
be allowed to retain their General, who had always led
them on to victory.

The motives of his devotion were too pure to allow this
injustice, any more than the bad treatment he experi-
enced in -the person of his tender mother (whose liberty
he in vain demanded) to diminish his zeal for his. coun-
try's service, and the honour of the French name. He
had always a principal share in the brilliant actions which
distinguished the arms of the Republic in the second and
third years.

Desaix was at length named General of Division ; and
though he so well merited that honour, he oWed it chiefly
to Moreau, the just appreciator of military merit, who,
having taken first command of the armies of the Rhine
and Moselle, gave him the charge of the left wing.

History will record the glorious march of that army
during the brilliant campaign of the fourth year. Those
forces invaded the Brisgaw, Suabia, and Bavaria ; when,
compelled by circumstances to fall back from the banks of
the Danube to those of the Rhine, the army performed
the manoeuvres with so much wisdom, order, and cou-
rage, as made its retreat still more honourable than its.
triumphs. Desaix had a great share in those victories,
and in the skilful military operations which were reckoned

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 323

the most brilliant and difficult that had ever been accom-
plished.

Moreaa could not console himself for the loss of the
campaign, bnt in facilitating, at least, the brilliant ex-
ploits of the army of Italy. He confided the defence of
Khel to General Desaix, the taking of which place was
so much the wish of Prince Charles. Thus whilst he
kept engaged before that fortress the numerous army of
the Archduke, Bonaparte gained orer Field-Marshal Al-
vinzy the famous battle of Areola, which had, in the first
campaign, decided the fate of Italy, and prepared the
reduction of Mantua, that speedily followed by the sign-
ing of the preliminaries at Leoben. But before this treaty
suspended the exploits of the French, the army of the
Rhine and Mdselle, under the conduct of Desaix, effected
the famous passage of the Rhine, the boldest and most
dangerous ever executed.

It was after haying so gloriously terminated this epoch
of the war, and when recovering from the wounds he had
received in the last battle, that Desaix profited by the sus-
pension of arms, toa visit Italy, to which country the first
campaign of Bonaparte had given new lustre, in order again
to behold that extraordinay man, as yet unconquered by
the greatest Generals of Europe. The reception he met
with fropi Napoleon was worthy of two such heroes ; for
immediately on his arrival, Bonaparte, in the orders is*
sued to the army, expressed his esteem for General De-
saix in the following terms :

" The General in Chief informs the army of Italy, that
General Desaix is arrived from the army of the Rhine,
and that he is going to take a position where the French
have immortalized themselves."

This honourable suffrage was followed by a still greater
mark' of confidence. Bonaparte desired to share his
glory with that of General Desaix, when he undertook to
transport the honour of the French name into Egypt.
At the taking of Malta, at the battle of Chebreiss, and

Digitized by

Google

324 THE LIF£ 0F

at that of the Pyramids, the latte* displayed such admira-
ble and determined bravery, that the General in Chief,
being desirous of giving him some lasting memorial of
regard, presented him with a poniard of exquisite work-
manship, enriched with diamonds, and whereon was en-
graven,- " PrUe de Malthe; bataille de Chebreits; ba-
tailh dee Pyramides : (i. e. Taking of Malta ; battle of
Chebreiss ; battle of the Pyramids.)

Seconded by Generals Friand, Davonst, and Beliard,
Desaix received orders to march and effect the conquest
of Upper Egypt, whither Mnrad Bey bad retired with the
rest of the Mamelukes, when he fought the numerous
battles, previously detailed in our campaigns of Egypt.
In every direction he caused tbe arms of the Republic to
triumph: nor was that all ; for he had the address to gain
the hearts of the inhabitants of the country be bad sub-
dued ; which amiable quality obtained for Mm the flat-
tering title of the " Just Sultan."

It was not merely on this occasion, however interest*
ing, that Desaix'* claim to tbe admiration of good men
was founded* He did all in his power to aid the progress
and welfare of the arts and sciences, in obtaining foe
those learned men, who were Gharged with tbe task of
surveying the country, not only every thing which de-
pended upon his authority to reader their voyagp as safe
and commodious as possible, but all the information* be
could obtain, by seeking it himself, like a well-informed
man, among the remaining ruins and extraordinary monu-
ments of that interesting country.

Such were the claims of General Desaix to immortality
and the gratitude of Frenchmen, when, summoned fro**
Upper Egypt by General Kleber, be signed, by thai
officer's orders, a treaty with the Turks and English, by
virtue of which he embarked on his return to Europe, aad
scarcely had our warrior welcomed the land which gave
him birth, than be evinced an impatience to join th?
conqueror of Egypt. How many affecting recollections

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPAUTE. 3^5

mast necessarily have attached them to each other ! They
set foot on, and entered together that island, before which
the forces of the Crescent had been foiled for near three
centuries. They landed together en the banks of (he
Nile, and in company conquered Alexandria and Cairo.
In taking leave of Egypt, to re-enter France, whither
his glorious destiny led him, Bonaparte reposed in the
hands of Kleber and Desaix the care of preserving to
France the inheritance of the Pharaohs and the Pto-
lemies*

His hopes were not deceived ; his confidence was not
vain. It was to no purpose that the most formidable of
the Beys survived his defeat : it was useless that he again
collected together the fugitive Mamelukes: our hero
gave him no time to breathe ; he encountered the tropical
heats, and pursued Murad beyond the cataracts, which
no army had approached during twelve centuries, when
new dangers still threatened him.

Desaix embarked in a neutral ship, in virtue of a so-
lemn capitulation, and set sail for France. He carried
with him a passport of the Grand Vizir, tod of the Eng-
lish General; and even a British officer accompanied
him in tibe voyage, in order to ensure respect for the
treaty. Notwithstanding this, he had scarcely arrived at
Leghorn, before the English Admiral, Lord Keith, de-
clared him hi* prisoner, ordered the ship to be dismantled,
and its rudder taken away ; thus exposing the vessel to
be run aground.

The Admiral, after sending Desaix to the Lazaretto,
added a gross affront to the violation of the rights of
nations ; he proposed to him an allowance of twenty toad
a day, the same as to all the other French common soldiers,
prisoners, along with him, observing, that " the equality
proclaimed in Franc* did not admit of Ms heing better
treated than the private*" The General, in his repfy to
this note, concluded as follows :—" I have treated with
the Mamelukes, the Turks, the Andalians, the Arabs *f

Digitized by

Google

326 TllE LIFE OF

the great Desert, the Ethiopians, the Tartars, the dark
inhabitants of Darfour: all paid respect to the promises
they made ; and they did not insnlt men under misfor-
tune !" The time of his quarantine elapsed too slowly
for his wishes/ and, at its expiration, he overcame the ob-
stacles to his journey. He had no sooner landed, than
he learned that Bonaparte had crossed the Alps: he
forgot his own fatigues, and though he had been absent
so long, denied himself the pleasure of spending a short
time with his family. He mounted on horseback and
posted to St. Germain, between IvrSe and Verceiul, where
be was attacked by some Piedmontese robbers. One
of his suite was killed, and several were wounded, while
attempting to defend him, among whom was an Ethiopian,
who had accompanied him from. Egypt. But the Genius
of France, who watched over Desaix's glory, reserved
him for a death less dreadful, and more useful to bis
country. He received from the hand of the Consul him-
self the order to join that army destined to perform such
wonders, and he immediately proceeded to Milan. The
victory at Montebello had already been obtained, and he
regretted he had not shared in it. However, the moment
was approaching, which was to deoide the fate of Italy ;
and as the talents of Desaix were too precious not to be
usefully employed in an event of so much importance, he
had the command of one of the divisions entrusted to him.
It has already been shown with what obstinacy both ar-
mies fought. Four times were the French driven back,
and four times did they again advance to encounter the
enemy. . At the very instant when the Consul, surrounded
by hostile shot, was reanimating his almost exhausted
troops, Desaix darted with impetuosity amidst the Aus-
trian battalions, when the deadly bullet stopped the earthly
career of the hero, though it did not prevent him from
tasting the fruits of victory with his dying gasp. / This
soldier, whose exploits both Africa and Europe celebrate,
had only time to utter the following words to the son of

igitizecf by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, 327

the Consnl Lebnm, in whose arms he expired :— " Go,
and tell the First Consul, that I die with regret 9 not having
done enough to live in the memory of posterity?* Desaix
preserved, to the hour of his death, great simplicity in his
exterior appearance and manners, which were united with
uncommon courage. His physiognomy was pensive, his
visage pale, his looks ardent, and his unchangeable sang
froid inspired all those who attracted his notice with that
respect which ever attends upon great men. He was
clothed. entirely in blue, without wearing any gold lace
or embroidery, and bis hat was unadorned by feathers or
lace, such being the costume of this gallant soldier..

To bis natural and modest. simplicity, Desaix united a
great firmness of soul. The distinctness of his orders and
words of command, in moments of the greatest peril,
were always a subject of panegyric, and highly admired
among, his comrades and followers. He was killed upon
a horse which was lent him by Bessieres, chief of brigade.
Before the Consul left Milan for the last time, he gave

* Bonaparte perceived the absolute necessity of bearing off the lau-
rels of victory in the struggle at Marengo ; indeed, never were such
efforts resorted to on either side ; the balance continued for a long
time doubtful between the contending forces ; when at the moment
that Bonaparte had cause to dread the worst, a generous hero changed
the tide of battle. At this juncture, Desaix, the magnanimous and
valiant Desaix, beholding the advance of a tremendous column of
the enemy, which, like the Macedonian phalanx of old, bore
down all resistance, gallantly determined to decide the fate of the
day by the voluntary sacrifice <of himself, and of the division under
bis command. For this purpose, directing his artillery upon the
foe, he advanced with his soldiers on the seemingly impenetrable
mass, through which he forced a passage, at the moment when a
bullet deprived him of existence, though not of immortality, since
his expiring sigh was wafted for the glory of his country. " Go,M
said the hero, " and tell the First Consul, that I die for the Republic,
happy if I carry with me to the grave a certainty that my death proves
of as much utility to my country as . I have ardently desired." .

When the First Consul heard of the death of Desaix, and the cir-
cumstances attending it, though fully sensible of the value of this ad-
vantage, he nevertheless exclaimed, with tears in his eyes: " The vic-
tory n dear, purchased at such a price !*

igitized by

Google

328 THE LIFE OF

orders that the corpse of Desaix should be conveyed to
the monastery of St. Bernard, and a mausoleum erected
to his memory; and that the names of the demi-brigade,
the regiments of cavalry and artillery, as well as those of
the generals and chiefs of brigades, should be engraved
on a marble tablet, and placed opposite to his monument.

Many persons have ascribed the victory of Marengo
entirely to Desaix, asserting that Bonaparte was defeated
till the former came up with a fresh supply of troops and
changed the fortune of the day. This idea has been
warmly combated by an officer of rank, who thus defends
the conduct of Bonaparte : —

" They who can assert such a thing must be totally ig- '
norant of all military concerns, and probably say it only
through envy. Bonaparte's talents as a general were
never more distinguished than on that day : he saved every
thing by defending the narrow defile on the side of the
village of Marengo till Desaix's corps should come up ;
and perhaps there is no other general in the world who
could have kept his men at the defile as he did, exposed
all the time to such a dreadful fire from the enemy. It
required all bis talents, all his coolness, all his presence of
mind, all his insensibility to personal danger ; — for he was
himself the whole time exposed to the hottest of the fire,
and above all it required his vast personal influence with
the soldiers to prevent their giving way. Those who
really understand the nature of such a conflict must consi-
der this as one of the most brilliant actions among all
those which have marked the French Emperor's unex-
ampled career ; if the troops had not kept standing im-
moveable as the rocks by which they were surrounded,
Desaix's corps would have come up in vain, — all would
have been lost past recovery. Desaix behaved with the
gallantry and coolness of a true hero ; but in Pagan times,
when the deities were supposed to mingle in mortal con-
flicts, Bonaparte would have been regarded as nothing
less than the divinity Mars himself."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 329

It is necessary to add that this eulogium was penned
by one who professed that, in many points of view, he was
not an admirer of Bonaparte.

" Desaix, at Marengo/' says Las Cases in his journal,
" upon his arrival received the command of the Army of
Reserve. Towards the end of the battle, and in a state
of obvious disorder, Bonaparte at that moment coming
op, the former remarked : * Well, affairs are going on very
badly, the battle is lost ; I can no longer do any thing, but
effect a retreat ; is it not so?9 'Direct the contrary,9 replied
the First Consul ; u / never looked upon the result of the
conflict as for a moment dubious : all you see m disorder, to
the right and the left, is only marching to form in your rear ;
the battle, on the contrary, is gained. Rush forward with
your column ; nothing now remains but for you to reap the
fruits of the victory.9 "

Bonaparte, speaking of Desaix, in his discourse to the
Institute, on returning to Paris after the battle of Marengo,
said, " he was the best general of the French armies,
he possessed every requisite ; and that in Upper Egypt
they gave him no other name than the good Sultan; the
just Sultan."

vol. IK— 36. V u

Digitized by

Google

330 TUE LlFE 0F

CHAP. X,

Arrival of Napoleon at Lyons after the Battle of Marengo —
His Return to Paris — Universal Joy at the signing of Pre-
liminaries for Peace — Alteration in Weights and Measures
— Attempted Assassination of the First Consul by Means of
the Infernal Machine— Obstacles thrown in the Way of
Peace with Austria by the British Cabinet — Preparations
for the recommencement of Hostilities — General Massenaf8
Proclamation -to the Army — Moreau* s Letter to the Arch-
duke John — Festival of the first Vendimiare — Telegraphic
Bulletin from Moreau to the First Consul — Further Con-
vention for suspending Hostilities — Conferences respecting
a Naval Armistice with Great Britain — Letter from Mr,
• Hammond to M. Otto — Malta surrendered to the English^—
Bonaparte tolerates the Return of the Emigrants — Strenu-
ous Preparations for the renewal of War by France and
Germany — The Emperor Paul claims the Nomination of
Grand Master of Malta — Mojreau victorious at Hohenlin-
den — Operations of the Armies of Generals Lecourbe, Mac-
donald, and Augereau — Consternation at Vienna — Armistice
signed between Qeneral Moreau and the Archduke Charles
— The French possess themselves of Tuscany and the Port
vf Leghorn, confiscating all English Merchandize — Peace
ratified between the First Consul of the French Republic
" and the Emperor of Germany— Bonaparte's Address to
the Senate — General Illuminations at Paris in Honour of
the Peace signed at Luneville.

•
Bonaparte did not long remain in Italy after having
achieved the grand exploit of the campaign. He left
Milan on the 25th of Jane, and gained Vercelli on the
same evening. On the 26th he reached Turin, where he

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 331

visited the citadel/ and reviewed the division of General
Torrean. Between the 96th and 27th, daring the night,
he passed Mount Cenis. On the 28th, in the morning,
he entered Chamberry, from whence he proceeded to
Lyons, and reached that city on the same evening. He
was received with great distinction by the Constituted
Authorities of that celebrated city, and was waited upon
by the Prefect, and all the civil and military officers, as
well as the principal inhabitants of the place. On this
occasion he gained mnch popularity, by giving audience
to the Chamber of Commerce, the members of which he
endeavoured to assure, that, after every thing should be
completed for rendering the asms of the country illustri-<
00s, be would take such measures as should secure the
success of its trade.* At seven in the morning, the 30th

• It was Napoleon's wish to have continued incognito, in order to
escape the honours and fetes intended him ; but all his precautions
were of no avail ; the report of his being in the city spread itself in
all directions, and the populace in crowds appeared in the streets, on
the quays, in the promenades, and mounted on the house tops, cry-
ing:— " It is Bonaparte! Long live Bonaparte!" these applauses
being prolonged until night, with which were mingled incessant dis-
charges of artillery.

During the nights of the 9th and 10th, a bronze medal was struck
in haste, and presented to the conqueror of Italy ; and, on the morn-
ing of the last-mentioned day, he repaired to the square of Bellecour,
amidst an escort of upwards of fifty thousand Lyonese. Upon this oc-
casion, he laid the first stone, and thus commenced the rebuilding of the
city, which bad been almost entirely demolished, by order of the come-
dian and revolutionist Collot D'Herbois. Previous to the depositing
of the stone, Napoleon took it in his hand, smiling, and assured the
inhabitants of Lyons, that this square should very soon recover all its
former splendour, and that the manufactories of Lyons, which were
then reduced to four thousand workmen, should speedily be aug-
mented to twenty-five thousand ; after which, he deposited the medal
enclosed in a leaden case, beneath the foundation of the new struc-
ture ; the bronze in question bearing this inscription,—

To Bonaparte,

The Restorer of Lyons ;

Verninac Prefect.

In the name of the grateful Lyonese.

Digitized by

Google

332 Tll£ LlFE oF

of Jane, tie arrived at Dijon ; when General Brdhe,
commander-in-chief, and the principal officers of the'
army, prooeeded to meet him; and, afterwards, attended
him to a review of the army, which he encouraged, by
citing the example of their predecessors.* The Consul
merely stopped to breakfast with General Brune, and
took bis departure for Paris, which he reached in the
night between the 1st and 2d of July ; having been only
fifty-eight days absent on a campaign, which, in its con-
sequences, laid the whole civilized world prostrate before
him.

On Bonaparte'* arrival at Paris, the Consols and Mi*
bisters, with the Senators and Counsellors of State,
flocked around him to offer congratulations oh the brilliant
conclusion of the campaign. At eleven o'clock on the
2d, when the two Consols and the Secretaries of State
entered the Tuileries, the guns of the palace and of
Montmartre announced his arrival. The first words of

■ Qn the other side appeared, encircled by a coronet of oak :

Twice Victor at Marengo,

Conqueror of Italy*

He deposited this Stone

The 10th Messidor, An. VIII.

At the conclusion of the ceremony. Napoleon repaired to the hotel
of the Prefect, where a sumptuous breakfast was prepared. He
proved as amiable at table as he was terrible in the field ; and it was
justly said of this repast:—" That there was Alexander feasting
with his friends on the day when hefoundeq) Alexandria"

• It is asserted that the General-in-Chief was so particularly satis*
fied with the conduct of one corps in the second campaign of Italy,
that he addressed those troops, as follows: — "You have now spent
two years upon the mountains, very frequently deprived of every
thing, and yet you have uniformly been found at your post without
complaining ; this is the noblest quality of a good soldier. I am well
aware that a week back eight months arrears of pay were due to you,
notwithstanding which not a murmur has been heard. Asa testimony
of my satisfaction, in respect to the excellent conduct of the 22d demi-
brigade, in the first action that occurs, yours shall be the honour of
beading the avant-guard/*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 33$

the Consul, on entering Ibe Council of State, were,—
" Citizens ! here I am again, have yon done mtfch since
I left yon V9 The answer from twenty months at oncd
was, as was natural from sneh an assembly, and upon
such an occasion, " Not so much as yourself, General."
On perceiving Kellerman, he said, " Tour son has dis-
tinguished himself,1' to which he added, " I wish for
peace, as do the troops of Austria."

Before his arrival at Paris, the good fortune * of the
Consul made him acquainted with a most extraordinary
change operating in the capricious mind of the Emperor
of Russia, who, having conceived an antipathy against
his former allies, attempted to raise a hostile spirit, in
the north of Europe, against the naval power of Britain.
Without provocation, be seized upon the English vessels
in bis ports, and sent their crews into captivity; prohi-
biting all communication with that country, as well as the
use of its manufactories in his dominions.

By aggravating the complaint made against the English
navy for its treatment of neutrals, he prevailed upon
Prussia, Denmark, and Sweden, to unite with him in a
confederacy against England, the object of which was to
oblige that country to abandon the principle of maritime
law, technically called the rule of the war of 1756 ; and
to admit, that, in all cases, free ships should constitute
free trade.

Without entering at large upon this question, it will
appear evident, that a more fortunate circumstance could

# It is a curious fact, that Napoleon, like all the natives of Cor-
sica, though a very free thinker, was extremely superstitious, inso*
much, that it has been said he carried reliques about him ; one thing,,
however, is certain, that he most religiously preserved the drab great
coat which he wore during his passage over Mount Saint Gothard,
previous to the memorable battle of Marengo. He was so much
attached to this surtout, that he frequently wore it previous to decU
sive battles ; and it is in this very habiliment that he is uniformly rc»
presented in the great pictures, painted by his order, to immortalize
his most celebrated victories.

Digitized by

Google

334 THE LIFE OF

not have occurred for the First Consul, whose fleets were
blocked op in the several ports. It was a renewal of the
unjust claims so frequently urged by America; and be
saw reason to hope that Great Britain might suffer her*
self to be bullied into concessions that would, in effect,
have given him all the neutral nations of the world for
his auxiliaries.

The victories and successes of the French arms afford-
ed the government a convenient opportunity of indulging
the Parisian taste for public ffetes and exhibitions ; and,
as the Consul could not yet declare his undisguised views
relative to the Republic, it was resolved to celebrate the
anniversary of the Revolution of the 14th of July with
unusual splendour.

Upon this occasion the standards taken at the batUe of
Marengo,* and by the army of Italy, were formally pre-

* After the battle of Marengo a beautiful medal was executed to
commemorate that famous victory and the arduous passage of the
Alps, which were represented in the following manner: — On one side,
the figure of Victory is delineated passing over the summit of the Alps,
in a triumphal chariot drawn by two horses. The vehicle is composed
of a cannon, mounted on a carriage, resembling those which were em-
ployed in conveying the guns over mount St. Bernard ; that is to say,
a species of sledge formed of the trunks of trees, on which each
piece of ordnance was attached.

Inscription on the border :—

The French army passed Mount St. Bernard, 2$th Floreal, year

Fill. May 17, 1800.

On the reverse, two palms enclose a bunch of twelve keys, being

those of the cities captured in consequence of the victory at Marengo,

Round this is inscribed,

Battle of Marengo, 25th Prarial, year Fill. June 14, 1800.

Another medal, to perpetuate the remembrance of the conflict at

Marengo, represented the following designs :—
Obverse : the head of Bonaparte as First Consul. On the margin, a
laurel wreath encircling a field; within which is inscribed this legend:
Bonaparte Premier Consul de la re: France exergue:
Bataille db Marengo, 25th and 26th Prarial, An. 8. H.
Augusts. Reverse : — On the field of the medal, — Lb Premier,
Consul Commandant l'Armeb de Reserve en pbrsonne*
Enfans rapellez-vous que mon habitude est DE COUCHER
sur le champ de Bataille. .

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 335

nested to the government, in presence of the people, as-
sembled at the Champ de Mars, by General Lannes, and
the chef (Te3 cadre Berthier, accompanied by appropriate
speeches. In his answer, the Chief Consul, to attribute
all the hononr of the several victories to the generals,
said, — " The standards presented to the government, in
presence of the people of this immense capital, attest
the genius of the generals-in-chief Moreau,** Massena,
and Berthier ; the military talents of the other generals,
their lieutenants, and the bravery of the French army.
On their return to the camps, let them tell the soldiers,
that, upon the era of the 23d of September, when we
shall celebrate the anniversary of the Republic, the French
people expect the publication of peace, or, if the enemy
should oppose insurmountable obstacles, new standards
will be the fruits of new victories."

At this ffete, Bonaparte acquired much popularity, by

an invitation he gave to such of the invalids as had re*

, ceived medals at the Temple of Mars, to dine with him ;

amongst them were two venerable old men, one aged 104,

and the other 107 years.

In answer to the constant flattery and fulsome adulation
offered to Napoleon, he took occasion to let the people
know, " That, after the period of his Consulship was
expired, and for a year longer, be would accept nothing
from the people ; but if, subsequent to that period, they
should choose to apply to him that article of the constitu-
tion, whioh decreed, that some great recompense should
be given to those warriors who had signalized themselves

* The first interview between Bonaparte and General Moreau took
place at the hotel of Gohier, President of the Directory in 1800.
*' General," observed Napoleon, " I had several of your lieutenants
in Egypt, and they are very disliguished officers." After which, he
presented Moreau with a magnificent pair of pistols, saying — " I
could have wished to have had all your victories engraved upon them,
but there would not have been sufficient room."

Digitized by

Google

33$ THE LIFE OF

in defence of the Republic, be would then accept their
kindness with gratitude."

The result of the armistice signed between the armie*
of France and Austria, in consequence of (he decisive
battle of Marengo, was the. ratification of preliminaries
of peace executed at Paris, by Count Saint Juiien, in
the name of his master the Emperor of Austria and the
Consular Government of France,

It cannot be denied by the bitterest enemies of the
Consul, that if he designed to bend and mould the French
people to his interest, he as diligently applied himself to
become useful to them ; and though it would be a waste
of time to detail the various improvements and regula-
tions suggested by him during the early part of his con-
sulate, yet we should deem.it improper to omit noticing
the zealous and effectual support he gave to the new
system of weights and measures, that had been suggested
by the early revolutionists and opposed by all the bigots
and knaves in Europe, who, like the supporters of king-
craft and priestcraft, find a system of complication and
mystery necessary to enable them to impose upon the
ignorant.

Among the great ideas realized during the first period
of the revolution,, must be reckoned that of an uniform
system of weights and measures. From all parts of France
remonstrances were forwarded against the great variety
of those in use :. several kings had. endeavoured to remedy
the evil, which was so detrimental to lawful trade, and
favourable only to fraud and double dealing; yet what
they had not been able to effect was undertaken by the
Constituent Assembly ; it declared that there ought to be
but one standard of weights and measures in a country
subject to the same laws. The Academy of Sciences
was charged to seek and present the best mode of carry-
ing this decree into execution, when that society proposed
the adoption of the decimal division, by taking for a fun-
damental unit the ten millionth part of the quarter of the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 337

terrestrial meridian. Thfe motives which determined
this choice were, the extreme simplicity of decimal cal-
culation, and the advantage of having a measure derived
from nature.

In -order to establish this base, the grand and 'import-
ant work of taking a new measure of the terrestial meri-
dian frota Drfnkirk to Barcelona was begun in 1792 : pit
the expiration of seven years it was terminated ; and the
Institute presented the result to the Legislative body,
with the original table of the new pleasures.

This system Bonaparte determined to establish through-
out tbe French dominions, and the prefects were in-
structed to persevere in getting it adopted in their several
departments, however strong the prejudices of the people
might be against it. All the public offices introduced
this new mode, and the duties and imposts were levied
upon siftrilar principles. Each chief magistrate was en-
joined «to provide a sufficient supply of the new weights*
and measures for the demands of the merchants and citi-
zens who might choose to adopt them, and he was re-
sponsible for their being issued correctly, according to the
national standard, eaoh article bearing the arms of the
Republic and of the particular <arrondisement from the
Municipality of which it had been received ; .and this one
rict of thto Firsts Consul was in itself sufficient to have
iifimortaHsed his momory.

' It was at this period the well-known attempt to assassi-
nate Bonaparte, by means of the infernal machine, as it
wfcsr formed, took place ; the best account of which trea-
cherous proceeding we shall translate from the " Me-
moirs of Count Las Oases," who, in vol. i. parti, page
384, states as follows :

' " In Several conversations, Napoleon spoke of the va-
rious conspiracies planned against his life, among which
that of the infernal machine was not forgotten ; a. diabo-
lical invention that created so much noise and produced

vol. ii.— 25. X x

igitizedby\jO<

338 THE LIFE OF

so many victims, which was planned by the Royalists,
who received the idea from tire Jacobins.

" About a hundred of the most infuriated among the
latter (says the writer) real cut-throats of September,
the tenth of August, &c. &c. bad resolved to rid them-
selves of the First Consul. To compass this, they con*
ceived the idea of a species of howitzer, weighing fifteen
or sixteen pounds, which, being thrown into the, carriage,
would, from its construction, have burst, in consequence*
of the shock received by its fall, and have annihilated all
those within the vehicle; and to render this plot the
more certain, an obstruction was to have been placed in
a certain • part of the road, whereby the advance of the
horses being suddenly stopped, the carriage must have,
remained immovable. The workman, however, who was
applied to for the purpose of constructing the machinery,
beginning to entertain some doubts respecting the views,
and moral character of those who employed him, gave
notice to the police. The result was, that the grand
movers in this affair were seized in the very act of
essaying the effect of their machinery, near the Garden
of Plants ; upon which occasion a terrible explosion
took place. Bonaparte, who uniformly kept secret the
conspiracies planned against his person, took every pre-,
caution to conceal the one in question, and therefore
contented himself by imprisoning the perpetrators. Being
at length liberated from solitary confinement to which they
had originally been sentenced, they were allowed a certain
freedom; when, it so happened, that Royalists were de-
tained in the same prison, for having conspired against the
First Consul's life, by means of an air gun ; these two
opposite parties combined together, and the latte com-
municated to their friends without the prison the ideaf of
an infernal machine, as far preferable to any other mode
of effecting Bonaparte^s destruction.

(t It as very singular," continues our authority, €i that,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON 'BONAPARTE. 839

on the night when the catastrophe took place, Napoleon
-evinced the greatest repugnance to quitting the palace*
An oratorio was the entertainment of that evening; Ma*
dame Bonaparte and some intimate acquaintances of the
First Consul had insisted on his going, which he peremp*
toriiy declined, and then fell asleep upon a sofa ; when he
was awakened, the, one presenting him his sword, and
another his bat* Even while in the carriage he dozed
a fresh, but suddenly opening his eyes, as if roused from
a dream, he cried aloud \ 1 1 am drowning in the Tag-
liamento F In order to explain this circumstance," says
Count Las Cases, "it is necessary to state., that a few
years previous, when General of the Army of Italy, Bo-
naparte, during the night, endeavoured to ford the river
in question, contrary to the advice of those who were pre-
sent* Urged, however, by the impetuosity of youth,
and disdaining every obstacle, he persisted, being sur-
rounded by about a hundred men, bearing long staves
and flambeaus, when he soon found himself in so4 much
danger as to believe he was irretrievably lost. At the
moment of his so awakening, a conflagration environed
the carriage, which was partially raised, and Napoleon
experienced the same sensation as when amidst the Tag-
liamento; which feeling, however, continued but for a few
seconds, as a tremendous thundering explosion instantly
took place. ' We are undermined F were the words immedi-
ately addressed by the Consul to Lannes and Bessieres, who
chanced to be in the vehicle. The latter sought to stop
the carriage, but Napoleon urged them to the con-
trary ; and in this manner he gained the theatre, and
presented himself to the audience at the opera, as if
nothing had taken place. He was saved through the
audacity and rapid speed with which the coachman drove
him, as, owing to this, the missiles, scattered from
the bursting machine, only struck one or two of the indi-
viduals who followed in the rear of his escort.

Digitized by

Google

540 TI,E ,JFE 0F

" The most trivial circumstances sometimes combine, te
produce the greatest results. The driver, upon this floe**
aura, chanced to be inebriated, which preserved tba lift of
Bonaparte. Indeed, 90 complete was the mail's intoxi-
cation, that it was not till the ensuipg day he becafte
conscious of all that bad transpired ; having .conceived
that the noise from the explosion was occasioned . by po-
pular-acclamations. Immediately after, the < event, the
whole was ascribed to the Jacobins, who, had, already
been proved accessories in planning a similar conspiracy,
and hi consequepce a considerable number were .trans-
ported ; they, however, were not the real culprits, as was
soon after discovered, in a very singular manner.

, " from three to four hundred coachman sn^cclbed
together, to give a repast to the driver of the Fjrjt
Consul, who had become, with them, the great her.o of
the whip. During the heat of {h* repast, -one off the
guests^ drinking to the skill of Napoleon's coachman,
added, that he well knew those wl^a b*d pfo^ed Mm off
the trick of the infernal machine; He was immediately
seized, and it was soon ascertained lb*t, ftpQQ the .day,
or on the eve of the fatal explosion, this sanie driver bad
stopped his vehicle before a gate-way, in order to- permit
a passage for the small cart, that bad oontajned the infer?
nal machine; The premises being immediately vrisited,it
was found that carriages of every description were: to he
had on hire, which was not denied by th^ proprietors of
the mansion; who .showed the out-hoosft tfhere the cart
bad been repaired, and, upon a close inspection, tcaces of
gunpowder were still apparent ; they ajso stated tb^t tbey
thought the cart had been hired by stwaggljereLtf Jfrittwy*
From this pipe, all thqse who ^ad been emplojejd jft working
at the. machine were easily traced, as well as the vender of
the horse, &c. and by these means it was also ascertaiped,
that the plot had originated with the Royalist chouam.
Some intelligent persons were then despatched io the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. g^J

Jiead quarter* of the Venders, in Morbiban; where the
fact was openly talked of, and load complaints ottered
■by the Royalists in consequence of the conspiracy having
failed: the result was, the seizure afcd punishment of
some of the delinquents. It has been positively asserted
that the ringleader of this atrocious, plot subsequently
sought eri expiation for his crime in the austerities of
religion** seclusion, having .voluntarily enrolled himself a
monk pf the order of La Trapped'

If there was ever, a moment in which France was really
thwarted, by what she called (he gold and. intrigues of
England, it was during the* negotiations for the naval
armistice :. the alliance between the courts of Vienna and
$t. James's .was perfectly secure, and the understanding
between the ministers of the respective courts bm cant*
plete as possible. Francis now saw . that .what, he bek^
was so entirely due to the forbearance of his enemy,; that,
like a froward child, he was determined to try lite utmost
limit of that forbearance, rather than acknowledge him4
lelf debtor .for whajt he had experienced; beseemed, in*
deed, »o near the brink of ruin, that be doubted whether
it was worth while to be saved or sot 4 and wa*, in conso*
quence, prevailed upon by die British cabinet to disavow
tbe.preUminaries of Count St Julian and refuse his ra-
tification, under an idea thai the Freneh might be .induced
to e#Ur into a joirit treaty with England, ta order that the
conquests the latter had obtained from France might ha
set off in the negotiation against thofle which France had
acquired from him. In thd interim, a constant commu-
nication was kept up between the governments of France
and England, which, as far as time was, necessary, gave
Austria an opportunity of collecting and increasing her
resources ; for until France should have exhausted every
reply, she could not well break the armistice with the
Emperor.

Bonaparte considered it of the first importance that
he should be enabled to. send supplies to Egypt; and he

Digitized by

Google

842 TIIE *-lFE OF

winked at the obstinacy of the Emperor, in hopes that his
indulgence might operate upon the English ministers ;
the folly of the British ministry and the Consul's patience
]>ad, however, both their limits.

• The admission of another French force into the Medi-
terranean wonld have been empowering France to settle
Egypt as a possession of her own for ever; and a power-
ful fleet and army, which, ever since the siege of Genoa,
had been upon that sea, under the command of Lord
Keith and General Abercrombie, had already been des-
tined to take possession of the colony.* On. the con-
trary, the Consul was pledged to the English to announce
f>eace by the first day of the new year, or to lead his
armies on to new victories : his time was nearly exhausted,
and he began to assume the character which he so fre-
quently alluded to in his proclamations and addresses—
that of the waking lion.

Strong and severe remonstrances were transmitted to
the Emperor of Austria, threatening him with the rupture
of the armistice at the end of ten days, if he did not send
an ambassador to Luneville, the place which had been
designated, by the former negotiation, as the rendezvous
for concluding a definitive treaty.

The United States had appointed commissioners to
adjust their differences with France shortly after the
Consular Government had commenced ; but the Consul
taught those commercial plenipotentiaries, that it was
their business to wait.

The obstacles thrown in his way by the tardiness of
the Emperor and the disputes of the English, left Bona-

* We are here compelled to allude again to the possession of
Egypt by tbe French, the evacuation of which has been pre-
viously summed up in very few words. The fact is, that the struggle
maintained in the East by the French, for two years after Napoleon's
return to France, being wholly unconnected with the life of that great
man, the account of the transactions which took place would nave
not only proved too great a digression from the main subject, but
have extended too far the limits of this publication.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 343

parte few other pursuits for some time than those which
arose out of the preparations making to gratify the Pa*
risians, and console them for having lost the fete of the
10th of August, which, very much to his credit, 'the Con-
sul had net suffered to be kept that year.

When the French resolution of breaking the armistice
was announced at Vienna, the Emperor and his court
were thrown into the greatest consternation : orders were
sent in all directions to the armies, to prepare for imme-
diate attack : and the Emperor resolved to repair in per-
son to the army, accompanied by his brother, the Arch*
duke John,

The conditions of the peace previously agreed to by
Count St, Julien were not much known, for it had been
stipulated that they should be kept secret till after they
were ratified; and hence the Allies, had an opportunity,
of declaiming violently against the unreasonable terms of
the French. Peace was most anxiously desired through-
out the German states; and the Emperor, therefore,
thought it necessary to issue a proclamation, attaching,
all the blame of the new hostilities to the French Govern*
ment, before he quitted Vienna.

The French generals were ready to commence the war :
each commander was at his post; and General Brune,
who had received the command of the army of Italy in
the place of General Massena, declared the pacific views
of his government in the following proclamation to "the
army of Italy.

PROCLAMATION.

Brune, Counsellor of State, Commander-in-Chief to the

. Army,

" Fellow Soldiers !

" Our enemies still wish for war. National generosity

had suspended the course of your triumphs.— You reposed

under arms in expectation of peace. — This attempt is

Digitized by

Google

344 ™B LIFE 0F

frustrated.— Your indignant palive country calls you to'
new battles. I appeal to your glory, to your courage, to
excite speedy repentance in the bosoms of our enemies,
for having rejected the moderate proposals of our govern-
ment. In vain did we offer them peace. They wished-
to destroy the Republic in her army. The foresight of
Bonaparte has proved just and rapid ; he penetrated the
object of the delays of the enemy; and peaoe must be
conquered by new. victories.

" At these ideas of fresh triumphs I behold your souls
elated, and your arms brandished in your generous hands.
I hear the cry of battle resound through all your ranks.
In a short time the enemy will learn that humanity alone
could have suspended your efforts; but that sentiment
imposes new sacrifices upon us, and glory must cover
them with immortal palms.

" Brave warriors ! I need not exhort you to regard the
rights of the people, among whom you are about to
penetrates Ton will never forget that liberty is their
hope, and that a display of humanity and discipline dan
alone induce them to favour our arms.

(Signed) " Brunb."

■ With the utmost despatch the Emperor set out for1
the army, and on his arrival at Altenkerchen immediately
forwarded a courier to General Moreau, proposing a pro-
longation of the armistice only for a few days, to allow a *
courier to return from Paris with the answer of the First •
Consul to the imperial ultimatum. General Moreau con-
sented that the sword should remain sheathed for a few
days, just leaving sufficient time to let the government
know the result by telegraph, before the new year (the
23d of September) should commence.

The 17th of September was the day on which the armis-
tice was to expire, and on the 18th, Moreau wrote the follow-
ingletterto the Archduke John, from his head quarters.:

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 34$

The General-in-Chief of the French Army to hit Royal
Highness the Archduke John.

Head-quarters at Nymphenboorg, 1st Complimentary
day (September 18th), 8th year of the French Be-
public, one and indivisible.
" General in Chief,

u I this moment received, by a telegraphic despatch,
the answer of government to the proposal brought by its
courier from Vienna* I cannot better impart to yon the
orders with which I am charged than by literally tran-
scribing the words in which they are conveyed.

" 'Announce to the Commander-in-Chief of the Aus-
trian amy, that the Emperor dees not wish to ratify the
preliminaries of peace, and that yon are obliged to renew
hostilities. Yon may, however, .agree to an armistice for
a month, if the enemy immediately pots into your hands
places of security. ML de Lehrbacb will forthwith re-
ceive the necessary passports.'

" Ton see, General, that the intentions of the First
Consul are very decided for peace, since the renewal of
hostilities depends only upon the ratification of the treaty
of preliminaries concluded with Count St. Julien, and
which he does not believe it his doty to expose to in-
terminable diplomatic discussions, without some gua-
rantee for the sincerity of the intentions of our enemies.

" I give orders to Lahorie, general of brigade, to re-
pair to the advanced posts of the army which 1 command,
to require from yon places of security, which a new con*
juncture gives us a right to demand. If the propositions
he is charged to make jou are not accepted, hos-
tilities will commence the day. after to-morrow, at sua
rise (3d Complimentary day, 20th <>f September). I en-
treat your Royal Highness to accept the assurance of the
high consideration with which I am, &c.

(Signed) " Morbai/.

(A tew copy) ."UnaahhmT

L "

*ol. 11.— 25. Y y

Digitized by

Google

346 THE LIFE OF

At Paris the hopes of peace had greatly abated when,
it was known that the Emperor had himself joined the
army, the command of which was confided to the Arch-
duke. His Majesty bad taken the sacrament and a for-
mal leave of his family previous to quitting his capital ;
on the 20th of the month, therefore, the treaty of Count
St. Julien was published by the French Government, as
a justification of itself to the nation, andfcs having -been
kept secret as long as secresy was useful.

The feast of the 1st Vendemiaire arrived, and the
gloomy expectations that filled every breast were aggra-
vated by the unfavourable state of the weather. The
moment had been calculated when new torrents of blood
would begin to flow ; and even the levity of the thought-
less Parisians yielded to the apprehensions that were
entertained for the fate of some beloved brother, son, or
friend. Every heart palpitated with suspense whilst the
Consuls were attending to the funeral discourse delivered
in honour of Kleber and Desaix ; but after the Minister
of the Interior had addressed the immense multitude, col-
lected in the Temple of Mars, in a speech relating only
to the feast, he surprised the assembly by announcing
tidings worthy of such a festival, contained in a despatch'
from General Moreau, received by telegraph that morn-
ing.

TELEGRAPHIC BULLETIN.

Line of Strasburg.

Moreau, Commander-in-Chief of the Army of the Rhine

to General Bonaparte, First Consul of the Republic.

Head-quarters, Sept. 20.
4* I have concluded a new armistice: the three places
of Ingoldstadt, Ulm, and Philipsburgh, are to be sur-
rendered within five, and evacuated within ten, days.
(A true copy) 4t Chappe."

The Minister then communicated the following note

Digitized by

Google

NAPOtEON BONAPARTE. 347

to the citizens assembled in the Temple of Mars, to cele-
brate the f&te of the Republic,

The First Consul to the Public Functionaries of tlic De-
partments.

" The preliminaries of peace were signed at Paris on
the 9th Thermidor (July 28), between Citizen Talleyrand,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Count St. J alien, and
ratified, twenty-four hours after, by the Consuls, when
Citizen Duroc was directed to carry them to Vienna*
The intrigues of the faction inimical to peace, which ap+
pears still to enjoy some credit, have induced the Empe*
ror to refuse ratifying them. This refusal was founded
upon a note from the King of England, who demanded
that his envoys should be admitted to the Congress of
Luneville, conjointly with the plenipotentiaries of tire
Emperor. v

" The Government was then forced to break off the
armistice, in order not to lose the remainder of the an-*
tumn in vain parlies.

" General Moreau had orders to communicate to the
enemy's General the preliminaries, such as they have
been printed in the Official Journal, and to make known
to him, that if they were not ratified in twenty-fonr hours,
or if his Imperial Majesty demanded ulterior explana-
tions, he should surrender to the French army the three
fortresses of Ulm, Ingoldstadt, and Philipsburgh, if not,
that hostilities would re-commence*
. " Tlie Government also made known to the King of
England, that it saw no inconvenience in admitting his
envoys to the Congress of Luneville, if he would con-
sent to a naval trace, that should guarantee to France
the same advantages which the continuation of the con?
tinental truce afforded to the Emperor.

" The Government has this moment received telegra-
phic news, ' that his Majesty, the Emperor, has himself
proceeded to join his army on the Inn, and consented toy

Digitized by

Google

348 TUK LIFE °*

surrender the three fortresses of tika, lagoldstadt, and
Philipsburg, which are this day occupied by the tnsope
of the Republic ; and that M. de Lehrbach, famished
with the necessary powers from his Majesty the Emperor,
is at head quarters, at AH-Oettingen, with orders to re-
pair to Luneville/

" The difficulties which the conditions of a maritime
troce naturally present, will still lead to some delays ;
but if the two governments do not agree on the conditions
of the trace, then France and his Mqjesty, the Emperor,
will treat separately for a particular peace on the basis of
the preliminaries; and if, which cannot be imagined, the
English party still should be able to influence the Minis*
ter of Vienna, the troops of the Republic will fear nei-
ther snow, nor the rigour of the seasons, and carry on
the war to all extremity daring the winter, without leav-
ing time for the enemy to form new armies.

94 Thus the principles of the French government are
extreme moderation in the conditions, but a firm resolu-
tion to restore a speedy peace to the continent.

" The most vigorous measures have been taken to se-
oond, in this essential object, the will of the French
people.

M 800b is the whole secret of the polities of their
government."

On the second Complimentary day, 8th year <19tb
September, 1800), the Emperor empowered the Com*
Lehrbach and Baron Laoer to treat wfth Lahorie, gene-
ral of brigade of the French Army, when a convention
for the farther suspension of bodtilities was ratified,
dated HohenKnden, the 19th of September, 1800 {third
Complimentary day of the 8& year).

The conferences relative to Hhe naval armistice, wbidb
had been earned on between M.Otto, the French com-
missary at London, for the exefange of prisoners, and
certain -confidential persons appointed by the Sugtish

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 340

ministry, im c— nonjnenco of a
M . Talleyrand, by the Imperial minister, Baron Tbopit,
at the request of Lord Mint©, on the 11th of Aagnst,
continued witboat relaxation .until tbe 6th of October,
wfeen the correspondence was closed! by M« Otto.

Some hopes had ben entertained ef bringing Ibis daS*
onlt aobjeot to a satisfactory conclusion after the inter-
change of the fiiat notes ; but those feeble expectation*
awe entirely dissipated from the period when the Empe*
rer had resolved to give np his fortresses. Several pre*
jocts bad passed between the negotiators, when M. Otto
desired a verbal explanation of the leading points in dis-
cission; and, in the course of conversation with Mr.
Hammond, threw oat the most pointed assertions of the
determination of France, in the event of the naval ar-
mistice not being concluded, to pursue the course of her
victories in Germany and Italy, and of the facilities
which the conquest of Naples and Sicily (events which
be regarded as inevitable) would afford to the French
government of obtaining, by force, those objects relative
to Egypt and Malta, which impeded the British ministry
from agreeing to the armistice.

No sooner had Bonaparte ascertained, by the result of
Mr. Hammond's conversation with M. Otto, that the Bri-
tish continued firm in their resolutions than he ordered
that the negotiations should cease, as far as they referred
to the congress of LuneviHe. In consequence of in<-
structions to that effect, M. Otto informed the British
ministry that the notes last exchanged, and several im-
portant events that had subsequently changed the basis
upon which the armistice had been proposed, determined
the First Consul to put an end to the negotiation upon
, that footing ; but that he was, notwithstanding, invari-
ably disposed to receive any overtures relative to a sepa-
rate negotiation between France and Great Britain, and
that the mode of such overture entirely depended upon
the option of his Majesty : that when f e King should

Digitized by

Google

Q50 THE LIFE OF

think proper to send for that purpose a plenipotentiary t«
Paris, fee was authorised not only to -consent to such a
measure, bat to deliver to him the necessary passports*
That if, on the contrary, his Britannic Majesty preferred
that the preliminary negotiations should open at London,
special powers would be sent to him for that purpose.

Peace was thus attainable; yet it is unaccountable how
capriciously the English cabinet conducted itself, having
wasted two months in a squabble which every man of
common sense must have been fully convinced would ter-
minate in nothing; and which, even if it had proved fa-
vourable, would only have been a preparatory step to-
wards peace, and yet that self same cabinet refused to
treat at a period when peace itself became the very
object of the negotiation !

Letter from Mr. Hammond to M. Otto.
u Sir, Downing-street, October 9lh, 1800.

" I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of yesterday's 3ate; and I am directed in return to
acquaint you, that his Majesty's government entirely
agrees in the opinion there expressed, that all further
discussion of the terms of a naval armistice would be
superfluous, as the only object which it was proposed to
his Majesty to secure by such an arrangement lias, in the
mean time, been made the ground of separate sacrifices
required from his ally.

" With respect to the proposal of opening negotiations
for a separate peace ; his Majesty, retaining always the
sincere desire which he has uniformly expressed, for the
restoration of general tranquillity in Europe, must, at the
same time, renew his former declarations of an invari-
able determination to execute with punctuality and good
faith his engagements with his allies ; aud must, there-
fore, steadily decline to eAter into any measures tending
to separate his interests from those of the powers who.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 351

shall Continue to make a common cause with him in the
prosecution of the war. :

" I am, &c. \

(Signed) . " George Hammond."

The necessity of continuing the war for the interest of
his allies, as here expressed in the King of England's
name, affirmed pretty strongly that the Emperor did not
sincerely design to make peace, at least it gave the
French a pretence for suspecting him ; and, whether it
was a mere pretence or not that was required, the Consul
took such measures as plainly indicated that he should
not act upon the idea of peace until it actually took
place.

Count Cobentzel, the Austrian prime minister, was ap-
pointed to treat with the brother of the First Consul
(Joseph Bonaparte) at Luneville, and the armistice which,
had been agreed -upon, both in Germany and Italy, was
observed by the main armies ; this however, did not pre-
vent the French troops from seizing upon the states of
the Grand Duke of Tuscany, in consequence of the Aus-
trian armies recruiting in his dominions, and owing to
the English ships taking shelter in his principal port ;
namely* Leghorn.

Of all the powers that had entered into the alliance
against France, the Grand Duke had evinced the least
zeal, and had acted most from necessity, and the ruin
preparing for him was not called for by any species of
violent or dishonourable hostility he had attempted, but
because he was a branch of the House of Austria.

Bonaparte did not long enjoy the exultation arising
from the repeated disappointments experienced by the
English ; nor did the French people continue long under
adelusion as to the safety of Malta ; for before it was
known in France what effect the confident assertions of
Iff. Otto upon that head would produce in the British

Digitized by

Google

THE LIFE OF

cabinet, flews wa» received there ef the surrender ef
that island to the British forces.

The French papers admitted that in the blockade of
Malta, for two years and five ^days, the English had dis-
played an equal degree of firmness and intrepidity.
* Their v easels were constantly erasing," they stated,
44 before the perts of the island, braving and defying
storms and seasons :" thei Freneh garrison and the Mb**
bitants, in the mean time, underwent the meet drendfol
privations ; for a long- period they were reduced te sub-
sist on asses' and males' flesh, which sold at eighteen
pence per pound. Towards the cendasion e# the siege,
the houses were searched for rata and micey for feed I •
fowl, at that period, cost upwards of three pounds ; a
socking pig was sold for 600 florins ; an egg* for one shil-
ling; and every other article in proportion ! Tlie only
provision left was bread, the French having fewnd en their
arrival immense magaaines of com. Eight hundred ef
the garrison are said, however, to have perished daring
the bbekade through famiiie and disease. Indeed, it
would be impossible to bestow* too much praise npon the
zeal, patience, skill, and indefatigable exertions ef the
British officers, both marine and military, as welt as the
soldiers and sailors employed upon that service; for Ge*
neral Piget, in his despatches, passed great encomiums
npon Genera! Henerief and his aid-de-camp Captaha
Dalrymple, as also, npon Captain Ball, «f the navy, and
Lieutenant Vivian, of the military ; bnt, more parfien*
Tarty, upon General Graham, whose premptitade had
forced the place to surrender much earlier than it ether*
wise would have dene*

The loss of M aha wan deeply regretted by the ftaaeh
government, as might be argued by the pains taken by
the French journalists to offer te the public by way of
Compensation the conclusion ef a treaty with Aiaeriea*

At Afar period the First Consul tolerated the return ef
the emigrants to their native country, from a general list

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. $$$

of whom it appeared, thai no less than one hundred and
fifty thcmtmd vfdbeiduab had 8ed the Republican terri-
tory. An order was,.in consequence, published by Fouch6,
then ]tf raster of Police, and daring the sitting of govern-
ment, on the 12th October, 1820; the Consols of the
Republic, upon the report of th6 Minister of Police,
isf oed 'their decree, authorising the return of those unfor-
tunate exiles to the enjoyment of their homes in peace,
after sqch a sad and wretched period of banishment.

If the Conpul was endeavouring to pqt his army upon
the best footing, by rewarding bis generals and flattering
his troops, the Emperor was not less active in preparing
for the alternative of war. The Archduke Charles was
recalled to defend the hereditary states ; and, that he
might the more impressively appeal to the zeal and pa-
triotism of the people, be issued a proclamation from the
palace of Prague. This document stated, that, earnestly
to his Majesty tlje Emperor and King endeavoured tp
procore an honourable and lasting peace for thq whole of
his hereditary dominions, and much as it was to be
wished, in honour of suffering humanity, after a loqg pe*.
riod of devastation, that the enemy would join for the
same purpose; it nevertheless continued advisable and
necessary to be prepared for. the wtopt, if, contrary to tbe
hopes and wishes of the Emperor, the obstinate refusal
and extravagant demands of the enemy should oblige him
to make the greatest possible preparations fiwf the general
defence.

' The decisive moment (it was said) had arrived, $nd
prwdence demanded that sufficient and speedy tawm
should be respited to. Extraordinary armaments tr$ti»
set on foot in Hungary, Transylvania, Moravia, Austria,
Bohemia, and Silesia, which were to be under the U|W4?
4iye command of his Imperial Highness, and the dangers
of th» conn try wese most pathetically displayed to tto
tattoos, vrWeh wire called apoo to avert them. " Jf*
choice," sfiid the Archduke, " is left to n» between 4e-

vol. ir. — 25. z 2

Digitized by

Google

354 THE LIFE OF

struction and preservation, between ignominy and ho*
nour; and/' he continued, " I am folly persuaded, that,
by a noble emulation of the behaviour of our loyal and
brave ancestors, on similar occasions, the security and
happiness of the country will be maintained, as it has
hitherto been gloriously preserved."

Preparations for war could not, indeed, fail to occupy
the principal attention of both parties during the existing
as well as the former armistice, for France was inflexibly
determined not to treat with Austria in conjunction with
any other power, and the Emperor as positively declared
his resolution not to treat without Great Britain,

It was by no means favourable to conciliation, that the
Emperor Paul, at that period laid claim ta the title of
Grand Master of Malta, whilst the English favoured the
pretensions of Baron Hompesch, one of its knights, whose
known gallantry and fidelity to the order gave him every
advantage over a sovereign, whose only plea was, that of
self-election.

Moreau, during the suspension of hostilities, bad re-
turned to his native country and married : but the stern
alarms of war called him from the soft pleasures of love ;
and, after sixteen days, he was obliged to quit his bride
and repair to head-quarters. He published an address
to bis soldiers, in which he requested them to exhibit the
same gallantry and disregard to the rigours of the season,
which they had before displayed when employed in the
defence of Fort Kehl and the conquest of Holland.

Moreau was now at the head of the most numerous
army France had ever sent into' Germany, and, proceed-
ing in quest of the enemy , their advanced guards encoun-
tered each other at Haag, where the Austrians obtained
a superiority.

.The Archduke John beaded the Imperial troops :
flushed with some partial successes, he collected all his
forces, marched in search of the French, and attacked
them with an unusual degree of vigour. The battle com-

Digiti-zed by LiO

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 355

menced at seven o'clock in the morning, between the
rivers Ider and Inn, on the heights which extend from
Bierkrain to Neamarck, and near the very spot (Hohen-
linden) where the armistice had, a short time before, been
ratified.

This was an important battle, and one that seemed
worthy to decide the fate of an empire : there were many
circumstances which tended to render it fatal to the Aus-
trians ; amongst others, a severe fall of snow, which pre-;
eluded that regularity and conformity in the operations
which must' always accompany a combined movement, or
without which, the utmost stretch of human genius can
effect nothing. Still, however, the gallant ardour of the
troops was not diminished by this derangement of the
original plan; and such was the determined bravery dis-
played on both sides, that victory, for a time, hung in
suspense.

Moreau, however, anticipated the intentions of the
Archduke, and having ordered General Richepanse to
assail the centre column in flank at the moment it com-
menced an attack, this unexpected evolution produced
inconceivable confusion, and the left being penetrated
nearly at the same time, added to other difficulties, the
Austrians were forced to retire at three o'clock in the
afternoon, when Moreau hung with such determined im-
petuosity upon their rear, that night alone saved them
from total destruction.. In this battle were taken the
greatest part of the baggage, more than eighteen thou-
sand prisoners, and nearly one hundred pieces of cannon.
The enemy fled in disorder beyond the Inn, and in their
flight carried dismay and consternation.

In order to improve .the advantages gained by the
splendid victory at Hphenlinden, on the 3d of December,
1800, Moreau, still advancing towards the Austrian can
pital, proceeded rapidly to Saltzburgh : the advantages
of occupying this post were numerous, and they were all
foreseen by thai able general : in his route, however, it

Digitized by

Google

350 *HE L1FE ()F

Was necessary to pass two rivers, tbe Into and the Satza :
the former rises in <he country of the Grisotis, parsed
through Tyrol and Bavaria, arid falls into the Dahdbe
near Passan ; its bed is deep and it hafc a rapid ctitftent.
It was considered by Marshal Turenne as one of the)
Strongest military barriers in Edrope: its right babk,
from the Alps to its jurictioh with the Dan o be, i* for*
tified by a chain of rocks. The Salza is neither so targ*
nor so rapid as tbe Inn, yet it is a river of considerable
magnitude : Saltzhorgh is situated on it* right btaft j
about one hundred and forty miles west-*oatb~#eftt from
Vienna.

Moreau having to pass these streams, the tetrefetteg
Austrian* werfe enabled to retard his march, and, in aonwi
degree, weaken his force: still, however, the French
finally prevailed over obstacles that, to a lets t>ef9everirig
army, or to one less accustomed to conquer, would have
been considered as insurmountable. The Inn was
crossed, December 9tb, at Nieupeurien, between Rosetf*
heim and Kuffstein, at Wasserburg and at Mnhld6rff ; tbe
Salza between Saltzburgb and Lanflen.

The greatest part of the Austrian army was conceit*
trated oh the ground, between La h Sen and Saltzburgb
which was Ori the I2tb December. A division, under Ge-
neral Lecoorbe, was ordered td advance on the right
bank of theSaal, and another, tinder General Decaen, by
Lauflen ; while a corps of reserve, under Generals Rick**
panseand Grouchy, was ready to support either Lfccbmrbe
or Decaen, according as circurfistdtifces tnigbt render it
necessaiy. General Lecburbfe (>a&fed tHfc Baal Mi the
18th December, without much difficulty, and Hade him-
self master of the tillage 6f Waal. GenbrVl Decftfen,
having arrived near Iiauflfeb, fooiid the .bridge broken
down, and the fenemy defending tbe Jteighta wbtoh c*tii-
mand it At this briti^al juncture an act of toattty irtto
ptiribftned t tb*M chasMm* threw tbeosiflro iwto tfi*
Sakfia, ill «pit* of the inltase cold, and iirmA dtw tot

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLF.ON BONAPARTE. 357

tome boats on the opposite aide ; meanwhile others aoV
Vanced and kept op a discharge of musketry along th*
rains of the bridge. A boat eighty men passed the rivfcr
in the boats that had been seised ; and before this hand-
ful of soldiers a party of Austrians retreated and left two
hundred prisoners ! Such 4 paltry resistance served only
to add fresh vigoor to an enemy already fall of overween-
ing confidence, and at the same time contributed to
spread a general sense of inferiority and a strong feeling
of timidity throughout th$ Austrian army.
. The commander-in-chief ordered Grenier to advance
with his two divisions to Lauffen, and the same orders
were issued to Generals Grouchy and Biohepanse; a
liew bridge was thrown acrdss the river, and five hundred
men, under the connnand of General Lecourbe, passed
over it : they were continuing their route, when, on the
morning of the 14tb, the Austrians presented themselves
in a large body* General Lecourbe knew his inferiority, and
consequently, fell back, contenting himself with defending
the road and maintaining possession of the village of Waal*
A severe Action took place ; but still Lecouxbd preserved
his position until assisted by the Whole division of De-
epen, which had passed the river, and in advancing kept
up a terrible fire of artillery on all that opposed it; this
movement favoured also the passage of a division under
Richepanse, which now began to fbrm on the right
bank.

In the* night of the 14th thft Austrians retreated preci-
pitately, and the French entered Snltsbnrgh at eigbt
o'clock in the m6rnihg ; General Richepanse, with the
left diVisiori of the Prench army, pursued the Imperialists
along tbfc road 10 Lint* find entered Netfmack, the last
p6rft in Bavaria* ofl the frontier* of the Hereditary Slates
of the Emperor, llie Arohduke John, whose headquar-
ter* #e*e rttfndf ed to Btettnao, on the Lower Inb, was,
fey this ni*noedtf&, fcul off from all communication with
the Aufclrian cofoftiafider, General Mdllitor, in the Tyrol,

Digitized by

Google

358 T,1E LIFE OF

who bad a force of about twenty-five thousand men,
bat who had no communication except with General
Bellegarde.

A perilous enterprise was, in the meantime, effected by
General Macdonald. — He had passed, in the first weeks
of December, the Rhetian Alps, by the defiles of the
Splogen and through Chiavenna, at the head of a column,
in order to support the left wing of the Italian army, un-
der the command^ of General Brune. The intrepid per-
severance of the General could alone have brought to a
successful completion this undertaking ; he led, in person,
the pioneers nearly to the summit of the Splugen, which
was filled up, and as it were obliterated, by the drifted
snow. He set the example of working to open a passage
which was effected ; but the foremost party had not .ad-
vanced far when the path was again covered, and his
grenadiers, sinking in the snow, began to believe that it
was impossible to proceed further : even the very poles,
that had been set up for marks, were covered with the
snow, which still continued to fall. The General, how-
ever, was the first to advance at the head of the pioneers
and sound the road : those who were near him he ani-
mated by his "Voice and example, and at length conducted
his troops through all the dangers of the Splugen,
and, on the 11th of December, gained the valley of the
Adda, in the Valtclline, by which means a communica-
tion was opened with General Brune : at the same time,
he was master of both banks of the Upper Inn and of
the Upper Engadine, and thus mutual communications
were established. The Engadine, or, as it is called by
the natives and the neighbouring states, Engadina, is ar
country of the Grisons ; it extends along the bank of the
river Inn, from its source to the Tyrolese, and is divided
#into the Upper and the Lower Engadine.

While these combined operations were carrying on,
the Gallo-Batavian army, under Angereau, whose right
wing was to protect and co-operate with the left of Mo*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLfeON BONAPARTE. 35$

reau's, gained some important advantages over the Aus-
trians in Franconia. On the rapture of the armistice the
Baron p'Albini, who commanded the troops of Mayence,
stationed at Aschaffenburg, attacked the Batavian infan-
try. Augereau having received intelligence from Moreau
that the Aastrians had assembled, to the number of
twelve or thirteen thousand, before Bamberg, resolved to
give them battle with two divisions of his army, and to
drive ttem beyond the Rednitz : they occupied, besides
the village; the two first heights that command Burgh-
Eberacb. They were driven from the village and the
first height ; they, however, made a resolute stand on the
second, but were forced to relinquish that also, after ah
obstinate resistance. General Duhesme took possession
of Bamberg on the 3d December. Augereau, informed
of the success of the army of the Rhine, withdrawing his
right wing from Rednitz, took possession of Furchem
and Nuremburg, and there intended to wait for further
advices from Moreau. It was the object of the Austrians
to cut off, if possible, the communication between Auge-
reau and Moreau, and to turn the left of the -latter**
army. Nothing but slight skirmishes took place from
the 8d tor the 17th ; but a bloody battle was fought on the
18th between Nuremberg and Lauff; it lasted from nine
.o'clock in the morning till the close of day. The engage-
ment was equally fierce on both sides: the assailants
were forced to fall back, but the loss was supposed to
be nearly equal in either army : a Hundred waggons were
loaded with dead and wounded Austrians.

Such was the situation of affairs when the Imperial
army Of the Dandbe moved from Braunau, and, on the
16th of December, took an advantageous position behind
the Traun. The command of the army was assumed by
the Archduke Gharles, with full power* ; a measure which
had long been denied him. A battle took place, in
which the Austrians lost, in killed and wounded, from
three to five hundred ; one thousand were taken pri-

Digitized by

Google

360 THE LIFE OF

aonfers, si* hundred of whom were cavalry, with Ge-
neral Lopez, their commander. They sustained another
defeat, on the heights of Lambacb, by Richppaqse, who
drove them into (be defiles qf Lambach with great Vw-
The imperial army then retreated \o Lints;, within ninety-
two miles of Vienna: the French toptipued to advance
and, on the 20th December, 6xed their b^ad-quarters at
Veils.

The French army had now penetrated into the h$w$
of Germany, and threatened even the capital : tbeir rapid
successes, and the indefatigable manner in which they
followed np those advantages, allowed no time to the re-
treating Aastrians to recover themselves; this perfec-
tion of military skill was well understood by Moreau, ad-
mirable not only in his plans bnt decisive in their execn-
tion ; the celerity with which he pushed them one upon
the other oonfonoded his enemies ; if he attacked and
conquered, be followed the discomfited foes with such
perseverance, that no time ooqld be gained by them to
reinstate themselves. In conformity with this system,
he then marshalled his anny into three columns, of which
the right, under Lecourbe, advanced towards the monu-
taibs south of Steyer on the Ens : the centre, com-
manded by Moreau himself, set out for Steyer; and the
left under Grenier, which bad marched along the south
banks of the Danube, and forced the Aastrians to retreat
from Lintz across the river, proceeded on the high road
fipm Lintz towards Vienna. On the 24th, Richepanse,
with the advanced guard of .the centre column, entered
Steyer, in which he found seventeen pieces of cannon,
*ttd made four thousand prisoners. On the 25th, the
French began to proceed onward to the next river, the
Srbph, and the Austrians to retire behind the Trasen,
the last river of any note, within fifty miles of Vienna.

Thus critically situated, all was confusion, consterna-
tion, and dismay, within that extensive city; terror
ragued in the countenances of all, except those, who, dis-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON . BONAPARTE. 3fll

affected to the government, expected, from the arrival of
the French, something, though they knew not what. In
proportion as the common enemy approached their spirits
rose ; they had meetings, and anticipated scenes of glo-
rious uproar and rain; they took no pains to conceal their
sentiments, and the loyal and the virtuous felt their dread
increase when tbey saw traitors within the walls and ene-
mies without. The city was in a state of utter confusion;
trade was stopped; families kept within doors, and
scarcely ventured into the streets ; distrust and suspicion
prevailed; the wealthy trembled for their money and their
palaces; the honest artisan, the industrious tradesman,
shuddered at the thought of seeing his little property pil-
laged by a band of lawless invaders, who would ravage
and spoil wherever they entered ; they looked upon their
families and wept, as they thought that a few days might
behold them a prey to ruffian violence and sanguinary
cruelty. The consternation was increased by the depar-
ture of the Imperial family, which set out for Offen,
escorted by a party of the life-guards. The gallery of
paintings, with the Imperial treasury, other valuable ar-
ticles, and the city treasury, were placed in waggons, all
ready to be removed from the capital : such preparations
could not fail to excite the most lively alarm ; but the
fears of the good were quieted, and the hopes of the
factions were frustrated by the arrival of the Archduke
Charles, at Vienna, on the 27th of December, at ten in
the morning, who brought the consolatory intelligence of
his having concluded an armistice at Steyer, of thirty
days, with General Moreau.

This armistice was a measure perhaps equally neces-
sary to both armies ; as appeared from a candid state-
ment of the General of Division, Desolles, to the French
Minister at War, which was dated from Steyer, the 96th
December, 1800.

By this armistice, the French army of the Rhine ob-
tained a triangular portion of territory, whose base rested

vol. ii.— 26. 3 a

Digitized by

Google

302 raE LlFE 0F

on Chiavenna and Wurtzburg, and whose point was be-
tween Leoben and Pachlarn on the Danube, within fifty-
two English miles from Vienna. This document com*
prehended the Gallo-Battman army, as well as that 6f
ihe Rhine; its duration was to be for thirty days, and
hostilities were not to be re-commenced after its expira-
tion, until a previous notice of fifteen days had Been
given: the armistice might, therefore, be indefinitely
prolonged until the notice of the rupture. No corps or
detachments, either of the French army of the Rhine,
or that of his Imperial Majesty in Germany, were to be
tent to the respective armies in Italy, so long as then*
ihould be no armistice between the French and the Im-
perial armies in that country. In addition to this, Mo-
reau promised to despatch, with the utmost diligence, the
present convention to the General-in-Chief of the GAUo-
Batavian army, that of the Grisons, and that of Italy ;
urging them strongly at the same time, particularly the
army of 'Italy, to conclude a suspension of hostilities.

Oar readers will recollect that an armistice was con-
cluded between the French and Austrians after the cele-
brated battle of Marengo, by whioh convention the
French army was to occupy the country comprised be-
tween the Chiesa, the Oglio, and thePo; and the Aus-
triads, besides certain territories that were specified On
the left bahk of the Po, were to occupy the city and
citadel of'Ferrara, on the right bank; they were also to
occupy Tuscany and Fbrrara. Contrary, * however, ti>
this stipulation, the Austrian^ continued to keep posses-
sion not only of the town and citadel, but also of a large
territory caAted the Polesino of Ferrara : nor was this
"the only point likely to create dispute ; at the same time,
a geaeral insurrection of the people in Tuscany took
place ; hostilities were, therefore, on the point of being
recommenced, when General Brune, inforni6d of the
'signing of preliminaries by Count St. Jolien, at Fdris,
tad of the arrival t>f Count Cobentzel, at Laneville, lm-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.

363

mediately communicated his intention to General Belle-
garde, that, until be received farther orders from his
government, he should suspend the motions of the mili-
tary forces under his command. This insurrection of the
people of Tuscany was, more properly speaking, a sort
of levy en matte; and, in the preliminaries above-men-
tioned, the Emperor had engaged for the disarming of
that force.

A new convention was agreed to on the 20tb of Sep-
tember, at Castiglione, by which General Brune con-
sented to wait for an answer from Vienna, relative to- the
evacuation of the districts of Ferrara by the Austrian* ;
and, in this treaty, an utter silence was preserved with re-
gard to the disarming the levy en masse. The French ge-
neral, however, insisted upon this as a matter of course,
for it was supposed that this levy was paid by the English,
more especially as it had been reinforced by a corps from
Naples. The whole, however, was a mere pretext on the
part of the French to have some plea for an eruption
into Tuscany ; a scheme which they considered as neces-
sary, lest, in case of a renewal of war, the English should
latfd in that quarter, a measure of which they were ex-
tremely apprehensive, and was certainly intended. In
pursuit of this objept a general officer, with a small es-
cort, was sent by General Dupont, in the name ef the
Commander-in-Cfai?f, to General Sommariva, who com-
manded the troops in Tuscany, with a request that he
would disarm the levy en fnasse, or, as it is called, the
national guard; and a^so disperse the brigands, or parties
of robbers. It was also further signified to Sommariva,,
that if the armed peasants vere not disbanded, and quiet-
ly sent back to their homes, l)e would enter Tuscany with a
mfyitary force, and punish them fot the incessant outrages
which they committed upon the territories occupied by
{he French' army. ^Promises of compliance were given by
Sommariva, but never fulfilled; and Lieutenant-Gdheral
Jtupont entered Florence, on the 15th of October, with

Digitized by

Google

364 THE LIFE OF

a great army, which* he had concentrated on the left bank
of the Po, while General Clement, on the 16th, entered
Leghorn.

The insurgents were easily dispersed; General Som-
mariva and the Austrians under his command, to the num-
ber of 2,500, were permitted to retire to Ancona. The
merchandise of the English found in Tuscany, and more
particularly that which was seized in Leghorn, was con-
fiscated. By the armistice of Marengo, Leghorn had
been permitted to retain its neutrality; yet, in contempt
of the established usages of civilized nations, the French
disregarded that immunity, and captured the property
of the English. We were, indeed, too alert for their
rapacity, as, from our maritime superiority, we shipped
off the greater part of the merchandise stationed in that
port.

It appeared, at first, to have been the plan of the
French to fall upon the Austrians on the Lake of Garda,
and then turn the lines of Mincio ; this, however, did
not take place ; other - arrangements, in consequence of
the reports received respecting the Austrian army, tfere
adopted, which finally led to such successes, that an
Austrian colonel arrived at the French heftd-quarters,
and proposed conditions of an armistice, which was con-
cluded on the 16th of January, 1801, at Treviso, the
capital of the Venetian province of.Trevisano, within
twenty miles of Venice. The line of demarcation be-
tween the two armies was the Tagliamento, from its
source in the mountains of the Tyrol to where that stream
falls into the Adriatic. The four fortresses of Peschiera,
Porto-Legnano, Ferrara, and Ancona, were given up to
the French'; the blockade of Mantua was to- be conti-
nued : but, by a new armistice, concluded at Luneville,
oh the 6th of February, the Emperor, as a proof of sin-
cerity, agreed to give up, besides the four fortresses
above-mentioned, that also of Mantua.
The great object of Bonaparte in these negotiations is

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 365

sufficiently displayed m the answer which he' gave to the
proposals of peace tendered by the Court of Vienna : —
" The left bank of the Rhine shall be the boundary of the
French Republic ; she makes no pretension • to the right
bank. The interest of Europe does not permit the Em-
peror to pass the Adige. The independence of the Hel-
vetic and Batavian Republics shall be insured and gua-
ranteed. Our victories add nothing to the pretensions of
the French people. Austria ought not to expect from her
defeats that which she could not have obtained by her vic-
tories : such are the invarible principals of the govern-
ment. The welfare of France shall be to restore tran-
quillity to Germany and Italy ; her glory to deliver the
continent from the avaricious and destructive genius of
England."

It may be remarked here, that, as Moreau, in the ar-
mistice of Steyer, included the Gallo-Batavian army, so
General Brace, in his stipulations with General Belle-
garde, included that of the Grisons. But Macdooald,
who was desirous of performing some feat that might
astonish Europe after his passage of the mountains, wrote
a captious and peevish letter to General Brune; in which
be observed, among other subjects of reproach, that he
(Le Brune) had no right to stipulate for the army of the
Grisons ; the business of which was only to favour the
operations of the army of Italy, without giving birn
(Brune) any right to command. It is easy to observe,
that an unjustifiable desire to acquire personal glory, at
the expense of humanity and the interests of society,
influenced Macdonald,- who preferred that opportunity of
signalizing himself by some act of greatness to the more
dignified renown of sparing the effusion of human blood.
This dispute, however, between the two generals, was
soon terminated by the convention of Luneville, where
all the demands of the French were fully complied with.

Bonaparte had now accomplished his wish: Germany,
whioh had so long resolved not to treat separately! found

Digitized by

Google

300 TH£ LIFE 0F

herself reduced to a situation which no longer permitted
her to consult her allies; them successive armistices led
the way to a final pacification, apd, after various delays,
negotiations, and concessions, articles of peace were
definitively agreed upon between the First Consul of the
French Republic and the Emperor of Germany, con-
cluded at Luneville, on the 9tb of February, 1801.

This successful termination of a war which bad been
qarried on with few interruptions for a period of ten years,
diffused a general satisfaction throughout France; and
the First Consnl immediately notified the joyful event to
the Legislative Body, the Tribunate, and the Conserva-
tive Senate.

" The continental peace/' said be, " has been signed
at Luneville ; it is such as the French people desired.
Their first wish was the boundary of 'the Rhine. Re-
verses never shook their resolution ; victory never added
to their pretensions.

" After having re-established the ancient limits of G*ul,
they had to give freedom to the people who were united
to them by one common origin, as well as by a commu-
nity of interests and manners «

" The liberty of the Cisalpines and of Liguria is
secured.

" After this duty, there was another, which justice and
generosity imposed.

" The King of Spain had been faithful to our cause,
and suffered for it. Neither our reverses, nor the perft-
dious insinuations of our enemies, could detach himfrpm
our interests ; he will have a just recompense; aprinpe
«f his blood is to sit on the throne of Tuscany.
. " He will remember what he owes to the fidelity tf
Spain and to the friendship of France ; hk roadsteads «nd
his porU will be shut against our enemies, and wi]l be-
come the asylum of our commerce and oar ships.
, " Austria, and it is this which is the pledge of peace,
w-Attstria, henceforth separated from the Republic by

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 3«7

vast regions, will do longer feel that rivalry, those heart-
burnings, which, for so many ages, have occasioned
the tortaent of these two powers, and the calamities of
Europe.

" By this treaty every thing is settled with respect to
France; it will no longer have to struggle against the
farm* and intrigues of a congress.

; « The government owes the expression of its satisfac-
tion to the Minister Plenipotentiary who has conducted
the negotiation '• to this happy termination. There remain '
rtfeflber interpretations to be feared nor explanations to bo
demanded, nor those equivocal arrangements in which
the diplomatic art deposits the seeds of a new war.

•" Wherefore was not this treaty the treaty of a ge-
neral peace? this was the wish of France: this was the
constant object of the efforts of her government.

" But its desires are fruitless ! all Europe knows that
the British minister has endeavoured to frustrate the ne-
gotiations at Luneville.

" In vain did an agent, authorized by the government,
declare to him, on the 9th of October, 1800, that France
was ready to enter into a separate negotiation. This de-
claration only produced a refusal, under pretext that
England could not abandon her ally. Since then, when
that ally consented to treat without England, that govern-
ment sought other means to delay a peace so necessary
to the World.

"It violates conventions which humanity had conse-
crated, and declares war against miserable fishermen !

"It raises pretensions contrary to the dignity and the
rights of all nations. The whole commerce of Asia, and
of immense colonies, does not satisfy its ambition. All
the seas most submit to the exclusive sovereignty of
England. ' It arms against Russia, Denmark, and Swe^
den, because those powers have secured, by treaties of
guarantee, their sovereignty and the independence of
tfceir flags.

Digitized by

Google

368 TilS LIFE OF

" The powers of the North, unjustly attacked, have a
right to calculate upon France. The French government
will avenge with them a common injury to all nations ;
without forgetting that it ought only to fight for peace
and the good of the world."

The treaty of Luneville being signed, Italy and Ger-
many were at the nod of Bonaparte. Those great coun-
tries, extending from the shores of the Mediterranean. to
the Lower Rhine, the French contemplated as one con-
tinued scene of victory, power, and triumph. The Em-
peror of Germany had sustained many, reverses of fortune,
and it cannot be denied that he had gallantly maintained
a contest, the propriety of whose origin remained a pro-
blem to the politicians, of that day. Humbled as he now
was, there appeared every probability of a lasting peace ;
he would not, indeed he could not, very soon be in a con-
dition to renew hostilities ; and the First Consul thus saw
the boundaries of France enlarged, and his. own power
daily acquiring a greater stability.

The French fi&te, in honour of the peace of 1801, took
place on the 9th of November, at Paris, with great bril-
liancy and eclat. On the Pont Neuf was raised a magni-
ficent triumphal arch. Opposite to the port of St. Ni-
cholas was a temple dedicated to commerce, and built on
boats spliced and boarded over. Fire works were let off
from boats placed by the side of that temple. The
arches on the Pont Neuf were covered with circular
frames, loaded with variegated lamps. The elegant baths
of Vigier gave to this illumination a picturesque effect
Farther on appeared the Altar of Invalides, at the gate of
which had been raised a triumphal arch, decorated with
antique crowns. From the basement hung a globe, be-
spangled with stars ; and a frame, placed above the key-
stone of the arch, exhibited in letters of fire, of prodi-
gious dimensions, the name of Bonaparte. Four pyra-
mids were displayed along the front. Near. the Place de
Concorde an immense theatre was constructed, on which

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 300

was elevated the Temple of Peace. It was supported
by ninety-four columns of the Ionic order, disposed in a
right angle of ten to sixteen. Two other temples, on a
smaller scale, were erected beside that in honour of Peace.
. On both sides of the grand alley of the Taileries were
raised aroades, with sub-basements, while the octagonal
basin was illuminated in all its circumference.

On the morning of the fSte an appropriate proclamation
was issued by the Chief Consul.

vol. ii, — 20. 3 h

Digitized by LjOOQIC

370 tee LIF£ 0F

CHAP. XI.

European Politics — Views of Napoleon after the Peace ofLu-
neville — Endeavours to revive the Confederacy of 1780 —
Ambassador sent to Paris by the Emperor Paul — He arms
against England — An English Squadron despatched ta
Copenhagen — Napoleon's Views respecting the Invasion of
Britain — He attacks Portugal — Mediation proposed by
Spain, but rejected by England — Spain joins France in the
War — Hostilities commenced, and rapid Progress of the Spa-
nish Arms — Peace between Spain and Portugal, to which Na-
poleon refuses to accede — Operations between the French and
Portuguese — Peace concluded — Nelson's two Attacks on
Boulogne — Preparations for Peace — Signing of Prelimi-
naries and enthusiastic Joy on that Occasion — The Concor-
dat— Bonaparte consolidates his Power — His Character and
Views— Picture of France presented to the Nation — Anec-
dotes and Traits respecting the First Consul — Canova and
the Arts — The Concordat ratified, with Anecdotes on that
Occasion — Lord Comwallis departs for Paris, and marked
Honours paid to him — Proceeds to Amiens — Delay in the
Negotiations — Napoleon repairs to Lyons to meet the De-
puties from the Cisalpine Republic, and is appointed its Presi-
dent— Returns to Paris — Disclosure of Secret Treaties with
Portugal and the Sublime Porte, and Increase of Territory
thereby acquired by the French Republic— Jealousy created
in England and vigorous Preparations for a Renewal of
War — The, Treaty of Peace at length ratified at Amiens.

Having made peace with Austria, Napoleon was now
at liberty to bend his undivided attention towards Eng-
land ; for whatsoever might be his hopes of effecting an
important blow against this country, at all events he

Digits

zed by G00gle

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 371

lenew the appearance might assist him two ways; R
would serve to keep the army employed, and furnish
matter for the attention of the Parisians, who would
thus be withdrawn from too close a consideration of
bis own newly acquired power; and it would also
compel us to be continually on the alert, gradually ex-
haust our resources, and pave the way for a general
pacification. ' '

The leading features «f the policy of Bonaparte to-
wards England, at this crisis, appear to have been, to ex-
cite a confederacy agtrinst us among the maritime powers,
and to exclude us from all the ports of Europe ; then to
attack Portugal, our only remaining aHy, and, if possible,
subdue her; and, finally, by the continued threat of inva-
sion, exhaust our patience and impoverish our finances*

Napoleon was congratulated by the several constituted
authorities on the peace which he had ratified with Aus-
tria. In bis answer, be replied, " France will not 'reap
all the blessings of a pacification, until she shall have' a
peace with England ; but a sort of delirium has seized on
that Government, which now 'holds nothing sacred : its
conduct is unjust, not only towards the French people,
but the several powers of the continent ; and when go-
vernments are not just, their authority is but short lived.
All the continental powers must force England to fall bdck
into the track of moderation, of equity, tod reasofa." Such
was the language then held by Bonaparte towards this
country, and it is remarkable what a similarity ha* pre-
vailed ever since. The liberty of the seas has long been
the watch- word, though an unavailing one, and we trust it
will ever prove so. Let it never be forgotten, that the navy
of England is the only certain bulwark upon' which she
can ensure her stability, and that once destroyed, her an- ■
nihHation, though not rapid, would be certain.

Bonaparte failing in this attempt at pacification, foft-
thraed, with unwearied assiduity, to represent to *U mart*
time nations the overbearing haughtiness and insdlesce*

Digitized by LjOOQ I

378 THE UF]t OF

of this country, and he, . in consequence, endeavoured to
revive the armed neutrality of 1780; the principle of
which was, that free and neutral bottoms made free and
neutral trade.

It was sufficient for Napoleon that this idea was plau-
sible and calculated to flatter the wishes of the different
maritime powers. By his ministers, and other agents, at
the courts of Petersburg!), Stockholm, Copenhagen, and
Berlin, he insinuated how encouraging the then posture
of European affairs was for such a measure, and how
great the advantages that would accrue from compelling
the English to make peace on reasonable terms.

The effecting this point was not then so difficult : Rus-
sia, the most important of the northern powers, was
governed by a madman, the Emperor Paul. He had been
irritated against the courts of Vienna and London, but
especially the latter. Mutual accusations had taken
place between the Russian and English generals subse-
quent to the unsuccessful and disastrous expedition of
1799, to Holland* After the first ebullition of the Em-
peror's rage against his own officers, his jealousy and
resentment was awakened against the English, which
was further inflamed by the failure of his schemes in the
Mediterranean.

Tbp result was an embassy from Russia to France, on
which occasion Bonaparte, with admirable policy, took
care to flatter the vanity of Paul, by paying the most
extravagant attentions to his representative. The ambas-
sador was received with the most profuse honours: hit
entry into Paris was announced by the firing of guns, and
nothing that he required was refused.

Next to Russia, the power of most importance in the
formation of a confederacy against England was Prussia ;
without her concurrence the effects of any coalition could
not prove important or be very lasting, but with her, every
thing was to be expected, as Prussia commanded an ex-
tensive maritime coast, and the navigation of all the great

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 373

rivers from the Rhine to the Eider, on the north of
Germany. Bonaparte, therefore, spared no exertions to
bring that power into the confederacy, for which purpose
he sent his brother Louis to Berlin. Nor was it by secret
intrigues alone that he endeavoured to raise this arma-
- ment against England : he openly avowed his intention,
with the reasons on which they were grounded, in a mes-
sage to the Legislative Body, the Tribunate, and the
Conservative Senate, mentioned in the foregoing chapter.
The manner in which Bonaparte signified his intention
of crashing oar maritime supremacy was forwarded toEog-
land in a very courteous manner, — About the middle of
January, 1801, some valuable books, magnificently bound,
were presented to the Royal Society of London, ifrom the
National Institute of France ; a complimentary letter
accompanied that present, signed— Bonaparte, President
of the National Institute and First Consul of France:
and on the letter was a finely executed vignette, repre-
senting Liberty sailing on the open ocean in a shell, with
the following motto :

" Liberte de mer."

The progress of the Northern Confederacy became
every day more marked ; Russia, Sweden, Denmark, and
Prussia, entered into it with avidity. Denmark had long
been a pacific nation, nevfer having engaged in war for
'upwards of eighty years; it might, therefore, have been
presumed that she would reluctantly enter the lists ; yet it
is remarkable that that power was the first, the last, and
the only government, that was engaged in actual hostilities.
Thus delicately situated the English ministry adopted
the expedient of forwarding negotiators, backed by a
powerful fleet, bearing its ultimatum, which required that
Denmark should secede from the Northern Alliance, and
grant a free passage through the Sound to the British
fleet. This was rejected, and Messrs. Drummond and
Vansittart, the envoys, returned home. The result was

Digitized by

Google

374 ™E L1FE 0F

the battle of Copenhagen, under the command of Lord
Nelson, which produced a flag of. trace from the Danish
Government, and the ratification of tile Act of Accession
by his Majesty, the King of Denmark, &c. to the Con-
vention, was ultimately signed on the 17th of June, 1801.
Daring these events, the conspiracy took place against
the Emperor Paul, at Petersburg!), who was assassinated,
Upon which the new Emperor Alexander, being1 instantly
proclaimed, declared for the laws and system of bis grand-
mother Catharine. Among the first acts of the new
monarch's reign was; the release of all British seamen,
whom his predecessor had incarcerated ; peace and good
nndersfdiding were established between the Courts of
Peterghftrgh and London, and the disputes of Great Bri-
tain and the oiher northern powers were amicably adjusted,
by which a period was put to the great northern confe-
deracy, so ably planned against England by the Consular

Government of France.-

• Bonaparte, disappointed at this amicable adjustment .of
onr affairs in the North, and daily receiving news of the
prosperous issue of our arms in Egypt, felt himself, as it
were, cut off from all hopes and possibility of annoying
us externally : yet the same motives for action still pre-
vailed in his mind. England, he foresaw, would be a
constant impediment in his way; it might not, indeed,
from its situation, it could not operate immediately to
his prejudice, by checking or subverting any of bis act,
or schemes of ambition ; yet still it would be a constant
enemy, whose motions would perpetually excite his
alarms; and a powerful one, that might annihilate his
navy, and, ultimately, shake bis power. It has been
imagined, that Bonaparte, notwithstanding his sanguine
character, and the gigantic plans which his mind had de-
vised, and his prowess executed, never seriously believed
it possible to effect any thing upon our own shores. Whe-
ther such was the fact, let the following statement mani-
fest, which is extracted from part 2, vol i. page 276,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLIiON -BONAPARTE 375

of the Journal of La* Cases, to whom Napoleon thus ex-
pressed himself, when conversing upon the momentous
subject in question,

"Well, well," said Bonaparte, smiling, " yon may have
laughed at the idea of this invasion in the Parisian circles,
but Pitt did not laugh in London ; he was soon aware
of the fpll extent of the danger to be apprehended; and,
on that account, loaded me with a coalition at the moment
I was raising my arm to strike the blow. Never did the
English oligarchy stand in so much danger.

" I had specially provided for the embarkation ; I
headed the best army that ever entered the field ; to say
it was that of AusterliU is sufficient Four days would
have sufficed to conduct me to London ; I would not have
entered that capital as a conqueror, but a deliverer; I
would have renewed the epoch of William III. but
with more generosity and disinterestedness. The disci-
pline throughout my army would have been perfect, my
troops would have conducted .themselves in London as if
they had been in Paris ;. no. sacrifices, not even contribu-
tions should have been exacted from the English ; we
would not have presented ourselves as conquerors, but
brethren, who came to restore to them their rights and
liberties.. I would have told them to .assemble and labour
themselves for their own regeneration, that they were our
elders on the score of political legislation ; that we did not
seek to interfere otherwise than to participate in their
happiness and prosperity, and I would sacredly have per-
formed my promise. But. a few months would have
elapsed ere those two nations,, such implacable enemies,
would thenqeforward have composed one people, identified
by the same principles, maxims, and interests; and I should
have departed thence, only to operate in the south and
north, under the Republican Standard, (I was then First
Consul, observed Napoleon,) the regeneration of Eu-
rope, which at a later period I was on the point of effecting

in the north and south, under monarchical forms. And

Digitized by

Google

37<J ' Til* LIFE OF

both those systems might have proved equally beneficial;
because they tended alike to the same end, and would
have equally operated with firmness, moderation, and good
faith. How many evils known to us, how many ills of
which we are not yet aware, would have been spared to
poor Europe ! Never yet was conceived a project more
enlarged as regarded the interests of civilization, combined
with intentions more generous, and which approached
so nearly to its consummation. What is still very remarka-
ble, those impediments, which caused the failure of my
plans, did not originate with man ; they were all due to
the elements : in the south, 1 was frustrated by the
ocean ; the conflagration of Moscow, with the ice and
snow of winter, annihiliated me in the north ; thus water,
air, and fire, all nature, in short, and nothing but nature :
such were the enemies of a universal regeneration, com-
manded by nature herself! The problems of Providence
are incomprehensible!!!" After continuing silent for a
few minutes, says Count Las Cases, the Emperor that
continued to develope the plans of his intended invasion.
" It was conceived that my invasion was a mere me-
nace ; because no reasonable means for my attempting it
were manifest. . I bad dispersed all our ships of war ; and
the English were compelled to sail after them to all quar-
ters of the globe. Our vessels, however, had no ot)ier object
in view but to return as unexpectedly as possible, and
ail at once, in order to assemble in mass upon our coasts.
I should have had from seventy to eighty French and
Spanish ships in the channel. I had calculated that I
should continue master of that sea for two months ; I had
three or four thousand small craft awaiting only the sig-
nal; my hundred thousand troops daily manoeuvred in
embarking and landing; they abounded in ardour and
good will, added to which, the enterprise was very popular
throughout France, and was looked for by a great portion
of the people of England. My landing once effected, I
had only to calculate upon a single grand engagement ;

Digitized by LjOOQIC .

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 377

the result could not be dubious, and victory made as mas-
ters of London ; for the nature of the country did not
admit of any chicanery : the rest would have been accom-
plished by my own moral conduct.
. " The English groaned under the yoke of their oligarchy*
As soon as they had found that their national pride was
respected, they would instantly have ranged themselves
on our side ; and we should then have been hailed merely
as allies presenting ourselves to effect their deliverance. — .
We should have stood forth with the magic words, Liberty,
Equality, &c." After this statement, delivered by Na-
poleon himself, it is conceived no further doubts can be
entertained as to the decided intention which he had
formed of attempting the invasion of this country.

As the preparatives that were resorted to by the Eng-
lish administration to repel the efforts of our enemy
must still be fresh in the recollection of the generality of
our readers, we do not conceive it necessary to descant
upon that topic, but regularly follow the thread of our
history.

• Napoleon having failed with the northern confederacy,
resolved to forsake, for awhile, the faithless element of
the seas, on which we rode triumphant, and attack us by
a more circuitous route, and by which he promised him-
self more success. Portugal, our old and faithful ally,
attracted his ambition ; and, whether the advantages of
subjugating that state would be great or little, it would, at
all events, serve as a rallying point, and a tocsin to
sound, at all times, the alarm of war.

Portugal was considered and spoken of by the French
as a mere colony in the hands of the English. The Por-
tuguese were disposed to continue in habits of close in-
tercourse and friendship with us, and they were proud of
xmr protection. If the English government would have
supplied them with an army as well as a navy, the
general voice of the court and nation would have cheer-
fully embarked the fortune and fate of Portugal with that

vol. ii.~gff. 3 c

Digitized by

Google

Jfrfl. THE LIFE OF

of Britain. Our ministers appeared for soote time to have
embraced the resolution of defending Portugal; and so
late as October 1801, Spain offered herself as a mediator
between France and Portugal : but to this the British ca-
binet would not consent ; ministers rather chose lo attempt
rousing the Portuguese to war, with the promise - of raili-
tary succours, provided a person recommended by Great
Britain should be employed to fill the office of Com-
mander-in-chief of the forces in Portugal, instead of
the actual Commandant, who, from age, was toot capa-
ble of acting with a sufficient degree of judgement for
his country. The Court of Lisbon did not take this
advice; it agreed, however, that, if this country would
furnish an army of 25,000 men, the British ministry
might, in such case, appoint a commander : to which our
cabinet would not accede ; and the force destined
for Portugal was, therefore, conveyed to Egypt.

Spain was not allowed to remain at peace : it seemed
to be the policy of Bonaparte to suffer no neutral states,
but coalesce the whole world in war, and Spain declared
hostilities against Portugal on the 3d of March, 1801.
tt was not* however, till the 26th of April that a procla-
mation to that effect, or, rather, of defence, was issued
by the Portuguese Government.

iPhe attack on Portugal was to be made by the French
and Spaniards in two different directions: the former
were to march towards Oporto and Lisbon, while the
latter were to penetrate into Alentejo, the largest, the
most fertile, and the best cultivated province of Portugal,
extending in breadth eighty miles* and in length two
hundred. .

The Spanish army, from thirty to forty thousand strong,
unAer the command of the Princeof Peace, from different
points, entered Atentejo en the 20th of May. All was
rapid progress on one part and precipitate retreat on
tbe other. By the 6tfa of Jnne, the Spaniards had re*
dttced Elvas, Campo-tnajor, Arroacbes, Ror-de-Pos*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON WNAtfARTE. 379

Eslrencoz, and, in * Wprd, ell the strong plnpes «wd:
inagaaine* of Alentejo. On the above d*y preliminaries,
of peace were signed between Portugal and Spain, at
Badqo* ; tbe principal conditions being, that the town,
fortress, and provence of Olir,en»e, ^ero wded to Spain,
and tie ports of Portugal sbut against the English*
This pacification wee ratified on June 16th, but pot prp*
claimed by Portugal till the 29th of July. )t was dftemed,
prudent that the Treaty of Ba<fcyos should remain pn-
poblished till the Portuguese possessions in South
America were secured from invasion, en tbe part of
England, by a reinforcement of French troops* In the
"Portuguese proclamation net a word of France was
mentioned.

The situation of Portugal, shut op between tbe pre-.
Tailing power and influence of tbe French by land, end
that of the English by sea, was extremely bard nnd
perilous, Mr. Frere, tbe English envoy at Lisbon, *?nt
a strong note to the Portuguese minister, remonstrating
against the conclusion of peace till bis court should bnv*
been consulted.

. At ibis haughty conduct tbe Portuguese cabinet was
greaUy incensed : as Portugal had, in fact, to complain
of tbe condnct of Great Britain. Immediately after Mr,
Frere bad presented this note be wrote another U> Mr,
Arbnthnot, the English consul, desiring bim to intimate
to the British merchants to bold themselves in readiness
to depart at a moment's notice: bet the English were
invited to remain, with assurances of protection, by the
Prince Regent of Portugal.

By a eovention entered into between France end
Spain* at Madrid, pence was net to be eonelnded
by those parties on the one bead, and Portugal on
the other, unless, among the stipulated condition*, certain
pieces in Portugal should he given up, to be occupied by
French troops nnfi) the establishment ef a general peace
ip Europe. When, therefore, Bonaparte was invited Co

Digitized by

Google

380 ™E LtFE ot?

accede to the preliminaries of the peace of Badajos, he
refused his concurrence. He represented that it was
contrary to the convention of Madrid, and to the general
policy and interest of the allies ; and that the immediate
consequence of this treaty to his Catholic Majesty, if he
should ratify it separately, would be the loss of Trinidad ;
which must be ceded, as a condition of peace with the
British nation.

The Court of Lisbon having, however, ratified the
Treaty of Badajos separately, when the French Govern-
ment proceeded in its determination to invade Portugal.
A French army, thirty thousand strong, under-General Le-
clerc, provided with a numerous .train of artillery, having
traversed the Pyrenees, entered that kingdom, from Sa-
lamanca, on the 28th of June ; invested the town and
fortress of Almeida, and from that position menaced
both Oporto and Lisbon.

In order to counteract the conquests of France, a squa-
dron, with troops, was sent out by the British Govern-
ment, in order to take under our protection and possession
the island of Madeira. It arrived on the 23d of July at the
place of destination : early on the 24th a negotiation was
commenced, and, before it was dark, half the force was
landed and encamped : on the 25th the remainder gained
the shore; and Colonel Clinton, who commanded the
expedition, having made proper representations, and sa-
tisfied the Governor respecting the friendly intentions of the
English towards the Portuguese, was put in possession of
the two forts commanding the bay of Funcbal, which is
the capital of the island.

Edicts were again issued by the Portuguese Govern-
ment for military conscriptions ; the army, however, did
not amount to more than 25,000 men, notwithstanding all
the requisitions and bounties. Among those were three
regiments of French emigrants, and some corps of Eng-
lish cavalry, the Commander-in-chief being the Duke of
Alfoens, who, in the beginning of July, quitted Abrantes,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BOKAFARTE. 381

and left a strong corps there, under the command of
General Forbes. He then proceeded, with thet, mate
army, to occupy such positions as might enable him to
check the farther eruptions of the French ; bat, in the*
meantime, while the weak and ill provided Portuguese •
army was thus employed, a negotiation was set on fool
for peace, which was finally concluded at Madrid^ on the
29th of September.

The active mind of Bonaparte, while carrying on this
incidental war,4 was not neglectful of the grand focus of
bis operations. England continued to be the centre of
action, and the menaces of invasion were carried on
under a new aspect, that of flat-bottomed boats. This
idea was first suggested in 1744, by the famous Lally ;
but was quickly abandoned by the French ministry, as
impracticable.

It was resolved, however, not to wait quietly an attack,
but io show our enemies that we were able to defend
our own shores, and carry war even to theirs. At
the very moment, therefore, when the project of in-
vading this country appeared to be ripe for execution,
it was determined Lord Nelson, with a flotilla of gun-
boats, and some ships of the line, should carry hostile
terrors to the portals of France*

While the armament under this gallant hero was pre-
paring, a stop was put to all intercourse between England
and the opposite coasts. Orders were sent by govern-
ment, not to jsuffer any persons whatever to land from
France, Flanders, or Holland. The French, therefore,
instead of making attacks on England, were wholly em-
ployed in preparations for defence against the dreaded
English armament. At Boulonge, Dunkirk, Dieppe,
Havre, Cherbourg, and other places, where the English
might direct their attacks, land forces were collected
from the neighbouring quarters, batteries were con-
structed, and furnaces erected for heating red-hot shot.;
^ all which were supplied with fires, ready for service* .

Digitized by

Google

382 TUE LIFE OF

On the 80th of July, Lord Nelson hoisted his flag on
board the Leyden of 68 guns, at Deal, and took the com-
mand of the armament, destined for an unknown expe-
dition.

On the first of August the squadron stood over to the
French coast, Boulogne-sur-Mer, being the place on
which it was resolved to make the attack. This was the
principal spot of rendezvous on the opposite coast, where
the enemies had been assembling their numerous small
craft, for the invasion of this country. In the evening
of August 3d, Nelson stood close into Boulogne, with
some of the bomb vessels, and threw several bombs, to
try their effect, when finding that they reached the shore,
he made signal of recal, and the whole armament an-
chored about four miles from the land. His lordship's
own flag was placed in front of the harbour, with two
lines, one of bombs, aud another of small ships of war,
stretching from his right ; behind which was the Leyden
man of war. Lord Nelson, in order to indoce the
enemy to disclose his trongest points, (for it was difficult
to discover the batte : ,s, the cliffs being of a brown clay,)
sent his ships of war very close in shore, where they
fired broadsides. The French batteries on the harbour
could only fire straight out, while our bomb-vessels were
stationed so much to the left that their cannon codld not
bear upon them. The French, therefore, discovering
the inutility of their batteries, employed a number of
men to throw op works on the hill, in the eastern turn of
the bay, which flanks the whole line of the coast. Still
they could not reach our bomb-vessels which were to the
westward, and only a few shells, therefore, were thrown
from them. The object which the British Admiral had in
view in the disposition of bis vessels was, to have forced
ad the French ships to retreat towards the mouth of the
harbour, that, being in a cluster, their destruction might
have bfeen effected daring the night.
The wmd being favourable for the bojBb-reoseb to act,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. MS

signal was made for them to weigh and throw shells at
the enemy's vessels, previous orders baring been given to
annoy the town as little as possible. Six of the French
vessels were so much damaged as to .be towed from the
scene of action ; five were got into the mole ; fonr sank ;
and one bulged. It was Lord Nelson's intention, in the
dark, to have sent three bombs close upon the enemy,
each towed by ten boats, which were also to have towed
the boats away in case of accident : bat the wind shifting,
the plan was rendered impracticable.

This partial attack having been made, which, as Lord
Nelson expressed himself in his despatches, served to
convince the enemy that he conld not come out of his
harbours with impunity, the Admiral retained, with part of
his fleet, on the 6th of August, to Margate-roads, On the
8ih, he again sailed, directing his oonrse to the eastward)
as if he had intended an attack upon Flashing, or seme
other port on the Dutch coast, whereas the real point
was no other than Boulogne. ,

Stimulated by his recent success* Nelson was inflamed
by an ardent Wish of bringing efi^Jjbe enemy's flotilla,
which was moored in the ffont of botdogoe, to the Bom-
ber of five-and^twonty armed vessels.

This desperate and almost mad attempt **s made on
the night between the 15th and 16th of August. The
force collected at the Downs for this second attack
wftonnted to about seventy vessels, of different Cetcrip-t
tions, on board of whioh were some thousands of iu44ues«
On the evening of the 15ih, about dusk, onr vesaete w^
ordered to form in four divisions, to storm the French
line of boats, brigs, and luggers. They were defended b;
Wag poles, headed by -spikes of iron, projecting from theh
sides, with a very strong netting braced «p to their lower
yards, being moored toad and stern across the haitom*
with iron chains, in the strongest manner, eentaining -eadh
about two hundred soldiers, and protected by land bat-
teries, as well as musquetry from the shore! Sine*

Digitized by

Google

384 THE LIFE 0F

the first bombardment the enemy had erected bat-
teries on every favourable point, and the army, collected
on the heights, occupied a line of nearly three miles in
length. Bat the circumstance of the vessels being made
fast to.one another, and to the ground, by means of strong
iron chains, was then unknown to the English. Such,
however, being the case, it was, to that circumstance
alone the French owed the preservation of their flotilla.

Our men were provided with boarding pikes^ toma-
hawks, and cutlasses only. Fire-arms were forbidden,
lest they should have been induced to fire, and thus
alarm the enemy before they could be well up with their
boats.

The boats were no sooner alongside the enemy's ships
than they attempted to board ; but the strong netting,
already noticed, baffled all their endeavours, and an in-
stantaneous discharge of guns, from about two hundred
soldiers on their gun-wales, laid two-thirds of our crews
on their backs, all either killed or desperately wounded. ,.
, The next division that came up with the enemy, wish-
ing to reduce the largest French vessel first, lost no time in
making the attack, but'^ach tfcat received so many shots
through their bottoms, that the crews sooa found them-
selves in a sinking condition ; and, as it was not possible
to stop, so p*any shot-holes, they were obliged to join the
rest of tb* division. Finding, from the number of men
killed *«d wounded in the different boats, and the con*
8tant;^re °f grape and small arms from the shore, that
thef6 was not any prospect of success, the admiral thought
£} to withdraw the boats, between tfro or three in the
corning.

, Only one French lugger was brought off, with a lieu-
tenant, eight seamen, and eight soldiers, being all that
remained out of about double that number, with which
jphe had been manned.

This was a desperate attempt, and a useless exposure
of human life. Even the French admiral did justice to

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 385

the daring intrepidity of oar men, and acknowledged
that they were merely compelled to retire in consequence
of the impracticability of getting the ships off, owing to
their being chained.

It is remarkable, that the French, on this occasion,
used no exaggeration : the capture of a single English
frigate ; nay, the mere escape of a French one, had been
hailed by the enemy with enthusiastic rapture, and bla-
zoned forth with all the pomp of extravagant hyperbole.
In their account, however, of this unsuccessful affair at
Boulogne, they confined themselves not only to' modest
truth, but told that truth in a very modest manner.
* Every thing concurred to render a peace acceptable*
A long series of years spent in the most desolating war-
fare that history records ; the oontinent metamorphosed*;
almost all its different states under the power of Bona-
parte, and England and France, singly carrying on their
hostile preparations, without any definite object in view,
every thing seemed to cry aloud for peace. Yet this
desirable end was pursued under all the attributes of
•war: it should seem as if ministers were anxious to
" surprise and astonish," and carry the consent of the
nation by a coup de main. Every thing, to appearance,
wore the aspect of the most inveterate hostility : prepara-
tions continued to be made, on both sides of the Channel,
for accomplishing and repelling invasion ; and British
fleets hung threatening over the alarmed coasts of France,
Flanders, and Holland. M. Otto still remained in Lon-
don, and flags of truce were daily passing, amidst vessels
of war, between Calais and Dover. The negotiation was
carried on with admirable secrecy on both sides ; though
there would, of course, "be some general anticipation of
such an event being likely to happen. At length, on Sa-
turday, the 2d of October, was published m a London
Gazette extraordinary, the following intelligence: " Pre-
liminaries of peace between bis Majesty and the French
Republic were signed last night, at Lord Hawkesbury's
vol. II.— 26. 3 d

Digitized by

Google

386 TUE UFE OF

office, in Downing-street, by the Right Honourable Lord
Hawke&bury, one of his Majesty's principal secretaries
of state, on the part of his Majesty, and by M. Otto, cto
the part of the France." '

These preliminaries were ratified by the French Go-
vernment at Paris, on the 5th of October; and the do-
cument was exchanged between Lord Hawkesbnry and
M. Otto, on the afternoon of the 12th of the same month;
The instrument had been conveyed to London, on the
morning of that day, by M. Lauriston, colonel of artillery
in the French army, an aid-de^camp, and great favourite
of Bonaparte. There was a degree of accidental pro-
priety in transmitting the ratification by the hands of Co-
lonel Lauriston, as his family, though naturalized - in
France, war of British extraction, and the recollection of
that event was still remembered. He/was great grand-
• von of the famous Mississippi Law, a gentleman of an-
cient family, namely, that of the Lauriston* in Scotland.

The rejoicings were general and enthusiastic through-
out the nation, as was manifested in England upon that
occasion. Illuminations, Uje firing of cannon, feastings,
dramatic entertainments, poetical effusions, and other
expressions of satisfaction and gladness, carried in many
instances, almost to the height of frenzy, testified the joy
of France, and in this country it was the same. Imme-
diately on the arrival of Colonel Lauriston, he went to
M. Otto's house, in Hereford-street. His arrival having
been hourly expected, the news soon spread through the
town, and attracted an immense concourse of people.
After a stay of about an hour, the Colonel, M. Otto, and
two other French gentlemen, entered their carriage, for
the purpose of repairing to exchange ratifications with
Lord Hawkesbnry, in Downuig-street. The populace,
however, aware of their intention, immediately took the
horses from the vehicle and drew it along with loud acclar
matrons. On their return, the mob, whose numbers,
were considerably augmented, insisted on paying the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 3^7

same compliment to their French visitors, by drawing
them back, which took place amidst loud shouting* and
buaaas. A party of the guards also attended the escort,
to prevent riot and disorder, and as a farther compliment
to the welcome strangers.

Peace was prochumed in every part of the world ; an
intercourse was immediately opened between the ports of
France and England, and packets regularly interchanged.
The recruiting service in both countries was discontinued,
and bodies of troops were disbanded. Addresses on the
peaee to our Sovereign, in this country, and to the Chief
Consul, in France, poured in from all quarters* The
work of pacification was very justly ascribed to Bona*
parte, who was called The Hero Pacificator of Europe I
To the address from the Legislative Body he replied,
" that the peace was owing to the stability to be expected
from the organization of social order and government."

This was indeed the year of treaties ; since those be*
iween France and Austria, Spain and Portugal, and
France and Portugal were alike ratified. The moment
intelligence was received at Paris that preliminaries of
peace were signed by the British Government, Bona*
parte executed a treaty with the Ottoman Porte, by
which France was admitted to all the privileges of the
most favoured nations.

Peace was also concluded between the French Repub-
lic and the Elector Palatine of Bavaria, in which thai
prince renounced, in favour of the French Republic, all
claim to the countries and dominions he had previously
possessed on the left bank of the Rhine, while the French
Republic, on the other hand, guaranteed to the EJectof
the integrity of all his possessions on the right bank of
that river. '

Though the deceased Emperor Paul had become as
zealous a friend to the French Republic as he was an in-
furiated enemy to Great Britain, yet his prior engage-
ments with the English Government had not been retracted

Digitized by

Google

388 TOE LIFE OF

by any formal pacification with France. It was, therefore,
not till the 17th of October that a treaty of peace was
signed between France and Russia ; whereby the French
nation acquired Yery considerable commercial advantages.
There-was yet another treaty, more extraordinary, per-
haps, than either of the former, and certainly not less
important: we allude to the famous Concordat. The
object of this convention was, to re-establish in France
the public worship of the Catholic religion. There was
to.be a general resignation of the French bishops, both
those who acknowledged the Revolution,. and those who,
sacrificing all worldly advantages to conscience, had
quitted 'their dioceses and France, and voluntarily em-
braced the hard lot of the emigrants. The episcopal sees
were to be filled with persons presented to them by the
First Consul, and confirmed by the Pope, as had been'
done prior to the Revolution. The curates, or parish
ministers, were to receive appointments from the bishops
and prefects conjointly. The Catholic religion was to be
recognised as that of the majority of the French; its minis-
ters to have salaries, and a sanction was to be -given for
the sale of ecclesiastical property. The form of the en-
gagement to be taken by the clergy was : " 1 solemnly
promise fidelity to the Government of the French Re-
public as established by the Constitution."

When objections were made to this measure by some
of the members of the Council of State, who considered
it as too great a deviation from the original principles of
the Revolution, and that* it might be followed by conse-
quences dangerous to the existing government, Bona-
parte, with a mixture of seriousness and irony, replied :
" Do you take no account, then, of a clergy who will
pray evfery day for the safety of the Republic ; and of
bishops, who are obliged, by their oath, to reveal all plots
Against it?"

» Though the convention between the Pope and Bona-
parte was signed so early as the 26th of July, and ratified

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 389

on the 10th of September, it was not carried into effect
until April, 1802. It was deemed political wisdom to
defer so popular a measure, as the re-establishment of
the Roman Catholic religion, for some time, since it would
thus be looked up to as an object of hope, which is a much
livelier emotion than that of gratitude.

The peace with England was regarded by the French
Princes and emigrants as destructive of their final
hope and stay. In the recognition of Bonaparte's power,
they beheld not only the ruin of the royal cause, but the
subversion of the balance of power, and even of all sub*
ordination.

' Among the loyalists, and those the most enlightened,
there were not a few who considered the concentration of
power in France, in a single and vigorous hand, as a
presage, auspicious to the restoration of monarchy. Some
imagined that this had been the ultimate object of a
" plan, arranged between Bonaparte and the Abbe* Sieyes :
others, that though this was not the design, it would fol-
low, as a matter of course. The way to it was. prepared
by the establishment of absolute power. It was impossi-
ble that ideas of restoring Charles. II. of Great Britain,
could have prevailed during a commonwealth. The re-
storation of the King was, necessarily, preceded by the
reign of a Lord Protector. What Cromwell had been
to- England, it was thought, Bonaparte would prove to
France*

Such were the fallacious hopes which entered the hu-
man mind. Mere circumstances had made Bonaparte
another Cromwell ; but then his death must follow before
the parallel would bold good.

Napoleon, the pacificator of Europe, was enjoying
the full height of splendour ; he quaffed the enthusiastic
admiration of his subjects with regal solemnity, and was,
every day, uniformly employed in measures that might
tend to consolidate his power. It was the general plan
of bis government to unite vigour with lenity ; to raise

■ Digitized by

Google

390 THE LIFE OF

ene arm bared for execution, and the other ready to dis-
pense favours. This was a principle against which no
objection coald be urged : a doe and equitable mixture of
those two qualities form, or ought to form, the consti-
tuent parts of every free and just government.

The power of Bonaparte was exercised neither with
wanton caprice, nor unemployed for the public advantage.
In bis preferments to office he was, generally, guided by
a regard to merit and the opinion of the nation. He
restored the operation of laws, and, as much as he could,
that of religion. He very seriously began- to improve
the civil law of France, founding it wholly upon a moral
basis, the principles of human nature, and extending its
influence, for the comfort and well being of individuals,
to many domestic situations and cades, of which the law
had not, formerly, taken cognisance. He formed a plan
for the education of youth : he turned his attention to
the re-establishment of a regular system of finance ; of a
navy, commerce, agriculture, and manufactures. He mu-
nificently patronised, and was assiduous in his attention
to the arts,* liberal and mechanical ; to the formation and

* Bonaparte was extremely liberal to literary people — a pension of
four thousand francs per annum was assigned to all authors and gens-
de-kttrcs, whose circumstances admitted of tbeir acceptance of such
a gratuity. — He gave Madame de Genlis, however, six thousand, and
a suite of apartments at the .Arsenal. *' As I had never spoken to
him," said Madame de Genlis, when relating this circumstance,
" nor had any intercourse with him, I was struck with his liberality,
and asked him what he expected I should do to merit it ? When the

Question was put to Napoleon, he replied, carelessly, ' Let Madame
t Genlis write me a letter once a month.9 As no subject was dic-
tated, I chose literature, but I always abstained from politics."
Madame de Genlis added, that though she, never had any interview
with the emperor, yet, on her recommendation, he had pentioned five

_ _ . 0 persons of literary talent.

One of those individuals was a mere liUraire de sods' td, and it was
suggested to Bonaparte, that if he granted four thousand francs to a
man, who was not an author, and therefore destitute of the usual claims
On such stated bounty, there were two friends of that person, equally
clever, literary, and distressed, who would expect, or at least ask, for
a similar provision: " Ehbicn," said the Emperor, " cektfaitdouze
adlie francs ;*'— Very well, that makes twelve thousand fraacs ; and

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 391.

restoration of canals, bridges, and highways ; and, in
a word, to the general strength, resources, and pros-
perity of the JBmpire,

He laboured to the utmost, by bis regulations, counte-
nance, and example, in discouraging and checking what-
soever was loose in morals, or frivolous, enervating, and
unmanly, in matters of amusement or taste. He honoured
marriage and a domestic life, as well as constancy and
sincerity in attachments and friendships. In what con-
cerned the theatre, (a very leading consideration in
France,) he discountenanced all loose and frivolous pieces,
and encouraged, on the other hand, such as were of a
moral, grave, and dignified cast: he manifested more
fondness for tragedy than the major part of comedies.

he accordingly ordered the other two distressed literati to be put on the
annuity list with their friend.

It seems, indeed, that the possession of talent was no vain distinction
under the imperial regime — and the friends and enemies of Napoleon
alike agree, that no merit escaped his liberal countenance and princely
munificence. He sought out intellectual merit with the greatest
avidity, and loaded authors, artists, and men of science, with favours
and honours, titles and emoluments. But his enemies say, " this was
done to degrade them." In England, where " all the talents" has
become a by-word for ridicule and contempt, it is true, no steps have
been taken to degrade its men of genius, by making them peer$ of
the realm, senators, and • persons of high official responsibility.
They are not even "degraded" by the slightest notice or favour ;
and are simply marked out and distinguished by neglect!

The man, says Lady Morgan, who at the head of a vast empire,
could plan great and lasting works, conquer nations, and yet talk
astronomy with La Place, tragedy with Talma, music with Cherubini,
painting with Gerrard, virtu with Denon, and literature and science
with any one who would listen to him, was certainly " out of the
roll of common men," even allowing, for a moment, that he had
taken '« the royal road to learning, " and was, as his enemies insinu-
ate, " but superficially acquainted with the various subjects which
engrossed his restless and all-grasping capacity."

During the imperial reign of Napoleon, a poet, anxious to acquire
favour, produced a poem, wherein he pretended to prove the descent
of the fionapartean family from the kings of the Ostrogoths. " I feel
much honoured," said the Emperor, on hearing this circumstance
detailed; " but the poet should henceforward learn, that 1 date my
lineage from the Eighteenth Brum aire II!"

Digitized by

Google

392 ™E LIFE OF

In his own private deportment he exhibited to the
• French the example of a simple and laborious life. He
was addicted to no pleasures that were impure or ignoble.
He lived comfortably in his own family ; loved his near-
est relatives, and was beloved by them ; neither was he
forgetful nor inattentive to his friends. Nothing passed
in the council . of state that did not undergo upon his
part the severest scrutiny. He heard the opinions of
every one with patient attention; but he viewed all
things, at the same time, with his own eyes, and followed
his own judgement.

. At this juncture was published, for the information of
the citizens of the French Nation, what was termed,
A ViewoftktRepulliCi presented to the Legislative Body
of Paris on the 23d of November, 1801, by the counsellor
of state, Thibaudeau. This instrument which, owing to
its length, we do not think expedient to present to our
readers, gave a faithful picture of the then flourishing
state of France, and the situation of all Europe.

Thte state of affairs as thus traced, (and that with
fidelity,) rendered Bonaparte a being formed not only for
the good of France, but of all mankind. He care-
fully encouraged virtue, science, and all useful arts : in
his own deportment he was exemplary ; and for what con-
cerned France, in relation to foreign countries, he pro-
fessed an emulation of great actions and useful enter-
prises, seeming determined to perpetuate a peace which
should constitute the happiness of the French, equally
with that of humanity.

During the interval of peace that succeeded, let
us how contemplate Bonaparte and bis conduct to-
wards the city in which he presided. Anecdotes of a
man who had changed the destiny of the world must be
interesting, and will form a contrast to the turbulent
scenes of bloodshed and war in which he has hitherto been
contemplated.
That a military government in France had been pro-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 393

jecled and intended by Bonaparte, in the earliest stage
ef his career, may be presumed from the following anec-
dote.

Having expelled the Directory, which resided at the
palace ef the Luxetnbourgh, he was asked where he
would take up his residence, when, after a moment's
pause, he replied, " at the palace of Tuileries; it is a
good military post !"

Fouch£ was the protector of the Republicans, and,
while defending their cause, the Chief Consul, one. day,
answered him, with some asperity, " the Republicans do
not love me !" " True !" replied Fouohe* : •• they say you
lire the high-priest of superstition ; however, they remain
5juiet." " But how, let me ask, do the emigrants, the roya-
lists, and the priests, whom you protect, act ?" Fouche
then, taking various papers from his pocket, which con-
tained proofs of the evil intentions of the parties he had
named, added, " look here, Sir, these papers will afford
sufficient information."

Immediately, at least soon after this conversation,
Fonch6 addressed a document to the Prefect of Brussels,
and others, which appeared in the journals, and might
be called a philippio against the priests : it accused them
of turbulence, intolerance, and practices unworthy of the
morality of the gospel ; requiring that such conduct should
be reproved, and, in future, prevented. This paper was
no less offensive to one party than flattering to the hopes
of the other. The ratification of the Concordat was then
contemplating, and the Republicans would not suffer
themselves to believe that the country was again to be
taxed for the purposes of a state religion : Bonaparte en-
tertained a different opinion; and it is asserted, that
Fouche was reprimanded with marks of considerable
dissatisfaction, and silence imposed upon him.

Cano va never figured as the advocate of any political fac-
tion, for as Ids whole mind was devoted to the study ef those
arts in which he so pre-eminently excelled, be was thereby

vol. 11.— 26. 3 s

Digitized by

Google

394 TIIE LIFfi OF

precluded from taking an active pari in the fate of em-
pires, or the destiny of King*. The impoverishing of
Rome, however, of those statues, so lately her pride and
her boast, and which had afforded him so many models
from whence he perfected his own masterly labours, was
a crime in Napoleon the artist could not obliterate
from his mind ; and, in consequence! he very frankly con-
fessed his aversion to Bonaparte, at the. period of his
consulship, rejecting all offers that were tendered to him
of establishing himself in Paris. Even while ooeapfed
in modelling the bnst of Napoleon, he told htm, " f tot
he was surprised to find himself in that place, and em-
ployed in performing such an office.99*

This was highly creditable to the First Consul ; as it
appeared there were talents, the dignity of which be
respected.

Volney believed in the virtue of Bonaparte, was his
friend, often admitted to his familiarity, and, being a
sincere lover of freedom himself, continued its strenuous
defender. Not sufficiently aware of the effects which
the exercise of power might produce, that remonstrance
was offensive, and difference of opinion an insult, he;

♦ There is in this country, perhaps, the finest bronze existing of the
late Emperor of France ; it is from a colossal cast, by Canova, about
one yard in height, and, previous to the entrance of the Bourbons,
formed a conspicuous decoration of one of the grand apartments at tfre
Tuileries. Upon the entrance of Louis it was of course discarded,
as a most obnoxious ornament, when it fell into the possession of one
of the oldest and most staunch French Patriots, by whoa it has been
entrusted to the care of Sir Richard Phillips, the actual depository of
this choice morceau, who has permitted it to be inspected by the
writer.

The recent demise of that great sculptor renders this specimen of
peculiar interest, the tout ensemble presents a most masterly and cha-
racteristic delineation of the great original, and never were the cff+rte
of the chisel more boldly displayed. The position shows die head a
little bent forward, and the deep markbg of mental attention was
never more forcibly conveyed to inanimate bronze; indeed, it
may be asserted with truth, that the hand of tile great master is por-
trayed in every touch, and that he has conveyed a noble delineation
of the Hero and the Sage.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 395

one day, endeavoured to convince the Chief Consul of
the mischief he would do to mankind by again conferring
power on the priesthood, admitting the smallest of its
once usurped claims, and trarthening people, who were of
a different creed, with a general and unjust tax.

Bonaparte replied, " Why do you mention the people ?
I do but act, in this business, according to their desire :
a large majority of the community wishes for the re-
establishment of the church."

Forgetful of the possibility, or, perhaps, not suspecting
that the truth which instantly occurred to his mind,
should thus deeply wpupd the pride of an individual whose
supremacy was soxpeent, Volney answered, were you to
act according to the will of the majority you • would im-
mediately cede your power : the mass of the people would
vote for the return of the Bourbons."

The ajpger of the Consul was aroused, and Volney, in
consequence, speedily after left his presence.

Some one, in the U110 spirit of French declamation,
affirmed, speaking to Bonaparte, that England was far
behind France in 4njiy appreciating the principles of
liberty : to which ho replied, " it would be well for the
latter if it enjtfyed one tenth-part of English freedom .*

Music being one day the subject of discussion, Na-
poleon affirmed, " it is so simple in its principles, that no
man can bo ignorant of it, who understands the mathe-
matics : it is the most monotonous of studies, for it has
np.greater variation* than may be found in different an-
gles, obtuse and acute."

Concerning the religion* .opinions of Bonaparte, no
man, it is said, . could fonp any decisive judgement : from
his different discourses, he might, at one moment, be
imagined an infidel, at another, a deist, and the ne^t, per-
haps, a Christian! To Monge, an avowed infidel, who was
expressing his disbelief of eternal punishments, Bona-
parte said, (after reciting the names of various great
men who bad believed in the Christian religion, and ex-

Digitized by

Google

390 THE LIFE OF

amples of others, who, in their last moments, had
changed their opinions from fear,) that he, Monge, would
certainly die a true believer.

He appeared to be rather a Fatalist than aNecessarian ;
. for he believed, or effected to believe, in his favourable
destiny.

His stature was diminutive, his complexion sallow, and
his physiognomy bore those marks that denoted the la-
bours of his mind, which was care-worn : but at the same
time susceptible of the greatest variety. From his me-
lancholy cast of countenance, choler might certainly be
predicted, but the sedateness of his eye did not denote
that sudden and impetuous temper to which he was very
subject. His voice in conversation was clear, sonorous,
and pleasant

On Easter Sunday, of the year 1802, the famous Con-
cordat was ratified, -upon which occasion Bonaparte enter-
ed the church of Ndtre Dame, and descended the aisle^
surrounded by attendants, with his hat off: the saHownes*
of his complexion being overpowered by the strong emo-
tions of deep thbught, so that his face was completely
divested of colour ; a gentle inclination to smile rendered
his mouth pleasant; his aspect was gracious, and bis
forehead large and open.

After the solemnization of the Concordat, he asked one
of his Generals, what he thought of the ceremony, to which
the blunt soldier sarcastically replied, " Cctoit toi# vrme
Capucinade" " That it was a complete Monkish mum-
mery." Bonaparte did not seem to notice this sneer, and
the same General, a few days after, was imprudent enough
to volunteer another joke npon the same topic : when
Napoleon fixed him, for some seconds, with one of
those frowns of terror which he could so effectually as-
sume, and, from that moment, the General fell into dis-
grace.

The military were the only men who could take the
least liberty with Napoleon, during the early part of bi»

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. ' 397

career. It is said that Moreau was invited to be present
at N6tre Darnel to assist at the consecration of the co-
lours and to dine with Bonaparte ; to which he answered :
" Of your three invitations, General, I shall only accept
one; I will dine with yon; but I will neither go to Ndtre
Dame, nor consecrate colours/'

In the plot to assassinate Bonaparte, (which we shall
shortly have occasion to mention,) there were persons who
insinuated that Moreau had taken a part. Upon that occa-
sion Bonaparte sent for the General, and told him, " It is
said that you have joined assassins ; I give no credit to such
a tale ; I know you to be incapable of a base action: but
such is the effervescence of mind among the military, that
yon will greatly oblige me by spending two or three day*
at your country-house." .

With this request Moreau willingly complied, but care-
fully returned on the third day, that no misconstruction,
by any party, might be put on his conduct.

When General Richepanse returned to Paris he went
to the levee of Bonaparte, and there presented himself;
he was taken no notice of, a side glance from the Chief
Consul excepted, who continued his conversation with
another general : Richepanse made a second attempt, and
met with the same reception. Highly offended, he then,
in a louder tone, said: " Citizen General, when you are
at leisure."-r-On which Bonaparte turned round, as if. in
reply to a troublesome person, and asked, " What do
yon want, Sir? who are you? what is your name?" Riche-
panse as instantly put his hand to his sword, and answered,
" My name, Citizen Consul ! is Richepanse ; a name,
which, if forgotten by you, has the honour of being
known to all Europe." Bonaparte, on this recollected
himself; and, with that affability he could so readily as-
sume, made a gracious apology for absence of mind,
treated Richepanse, afterwards, with marked distinction,
and soon appointed him commander of Guadaloupe.
, The peace, that was so ardently desired by both n&»

Digitized by

Google

398 THE LIFE OF

Uom, was looked upon as finally accomplished when the '
preliminaries were signed: nothing, it was thought,
eduld oeour to prevent its completion, and the ratifications
were expected to take place within a few weeks. This
last, indeed, was regarded as a form, and necessary act
of diplomacy, rather than essentially connected with what
had been already transacted.

On the 1}St cf November, Marquis Cornwallis, who
had been appointed Ambassador to the French Republic
upon this occasion, left London, attended by a train
suitable to his own dignity, and that of the nation which
he represented. The city of Amiens, being nearly equi-
distant between Paris and London, was fixed npon as the
spot for holding the congress, which was finally to settle
ali matters in dispute between Great. Britain on the one
part, and France, in conjunction with her Allies, on the
otter. Lord Cornwallis had previously sent over to Calais
his horses and equipage, which was far superior in splen-
dor and appointments to any thing which had been seen
in France since the Revolution. So anxious was his
Lordship to exeoute this important mission, that although
the weather was extremely tempestuous, he resolved to
embark, on the morning of the 3d of November, for
Calais, One of the vessels, which carried the baggage,
was stranded, and lost near Boulogne ; and the inhabitants
of the town of Calais, watched, with the most anxious
solicitude, the vessel in which his Lordship was embarked.
Much was apprehended for its safety ; but towards night
the storm somewhat abated, and he landed, under a
general salute of artillery from the several forts. Next
morning he was visited by all the constituted authorities of
that District, and, in the course of the day, set out for
Paris, where he arrived on the evening of the 7th. On
the 8th he was introduced to Talleyrand, and partook o(
a splendid dinner, at which were all the most distinguished
personages in Paris. Next morning he was privately in-
troduced to Bonaparte, who conversed with him for a

• Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 399

considerable time. This was the day fixed for the public
rejoicings in Paris on account of the peace, and the
presence of the British Minister added considerably to
the general joy on that occasion. By a private order of
the police, the carriage of Lord GornwaUis was the only
one permitted, on that day, to pass through the crowded
streets, a measure most cheerfully acceded to by the Pa-
risian mob. In the evening Lord GornwaUis was invited
to the palace of the Tuileries, to witness the illumi-
nations and fire-works, and, after that day, his Lordship
gave and received some grand dinners, at which Generals
Moreao, Massena, Berthier, and several of the first cha-
racters in France were present. His Lordship never
dined with the First Consul ; and it appeared, from this
circumstance, that, although Bonaparte was in the habit
of asking distinguished characters of every country to his
table, as a private individual, yet, to ambassadors he
stood upon all the strictness of the etiquette of crowned
heads, preserving the greatest degree of state and cere-
mony.

. His Lordship's reception, however, at the French
Court, was marked with more distinction than had ever
before been paid in France to any ambassador. In ad-
dition to the guard of honour, appointed to wait at his
hotel, orders were given to the soldiers at every corp*-d*-
garde, that, when his carriage passed, they should turn
out and carry arms. This, as a mark of distinction, was
one of the highest compliments that could be shown
him ; and such as never before had been paid to any fo-
reign minister in France* Notwithstanding this, however,
his Lordship was soon tired of Paris, and, at the latter
end of November, set out for Amiens, where he arrived
on the 1st of Deoember. Neither the Spanish or Dutch
ministers wwe then arrived, and Joseph Bonaparte, the
Consul's brother, who was the French minister, proceeded
to that city for the sole purpose of complimenting Lord
GornwaUis. No sooner had his Lordship arrived, than

Digitized by

Google

400 THE LIFE OF

the administrators of the theatre of Amiens waited upon
him, to know at what hour he would wish the play to
begin. His Lordship replied, that he very seldom went
to plays, and requested they would fix the time most
agreeable to the inhabitants of the city : they, however,
observed his dinner hour, and daring his stay in that city,
the play began at seven o'clock, instead of six, which
was, before his Lordship's arrival, the time it had always
commenced. The negotiation, however, was for a con-
siderable time suspended. The Dutch minister, Schim-
melpinnick, did not arrive until the 7th, and the court of
Spain seemed vetyslowin appointing its emissary; at
length the choice- fell upon the Chevalier d'Azarra, but
he remained a considerable time at Genoa, assigning ill*
ness as the cause. Since nothing could be accomplished
at Amiens until the arrival of the Spanish minister, Lord
Cornwallis had, for a considerable time, no other em-
ployment than receiving and exchanging complimentary
visits. Spain, in fact, being the only loser in point of
territory, owing to the required cession of Trinidad by
the Treaty, was not very anxious to expedite her minister
to Amiens.

The French Government and the First Consul, in the
mean time, were not inactive. Two grand projects then
occupied the mind of Bonaparte. The first was, the
recovery of the colonies of St Domingo and Guadaloupe,
which bad formerly been of the greatest importance to
Francer but which the revolutionary army of the negroes,
•who had defended them throughout the war, now threat-
ened to wrest from the parent state. The second project,
still bolder, was to place the Cisalpine Republic, which
the treaty of Lnoeville had declared independent, ab-
solutely in the power and at the discretion of the First
Consul. In pursuance of the first project, a. considerable
army and fleet had been for some time collecting at Brest,
L'Orient, andRochfort, consisting of twenty-three ships of

Digitized by LjOOQIC

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4Q4

the line, five of them Spanish, with 26,000 land-troop*
all of which sailed on the 14th of December.

The British Government was not without reason
jealous of such a force, and somewhat anxious about its
final destination ; but, having received express assurances
from France, that its only object was to take possession
of the .colonies, and place them under regular govern-
ments, England at length consented to their sailing,
without waiting for the conclusion of the definitive treaty;
Ministers, however, collected a force at Bantry Bay,
under the command of Admiral. Mitchell, which was
destined as a fleet of observation, to watch the motion*
of the French in the West Indies. When the crewa of
those vessels understood that they were about to be sent
thither, notwithstanding the war appeared at an end, a
spirit of mutiny spread through the major part of the fleet,
but particularly on board the ships Temeraire . and For-r
midable. It was, however, soon subdued by. the decided
spirit and conduct of the officers; and fourteen of the
ring-leaders, who bad most of them borne, an excellent
character previous to the mutiny, were tried by a court
martial, condemned, and executed*
• The year 1802 was considered by many as commencing
in a most auspicious manner. The termination of our.
struggle with France, the increased glory of our army and
navy ; our maritime regulations and laws gloriously esta-
blished, though contended for by the Northern Conjfeq*era-.
cy; the quiet condition of Ireland, according to the state-
ment of ministers ; and lastly, the intended repeal of the
income-tax, a hateful impost, which was borne with 'in-
dignant feeling* by the people : these were flattering cir-
cumstances,: and, as such, hailed with joy. by the British
nation. Tet, towards. the middle of January, surprise
and impatience began to be expressed at the deity which
took place in the signing of a definitive treaty.

The situation of Lord Cornwallis, at Amiens, was awk-
ward in the extreme ; and suspicions began to bjs enter-

vol. 11.— 27. 3p

Digitized by

Google

4ftt TH* LIFE OF

mined, thai to was, as well as the country be represented,
egregiously trifled *ith. In the meatotiine, Bonaparte,
who appeared to consider the Congress at Amiens, or
the definitive treaty, as objects merely of secondary in-
portanee, prepared to set out for Lyons* for the osten-
sible purpose 6f conferring with a considerable number
of the Cisalpine Deputies; bat, rather, as it appeared hi
the event, for an object of infinitely greater importance
to hifcisetf, that of being invested with the sovereignty of
that country, tinder the title of President. Talleyrand
preceded him, and arrived at Lyons on the 4th of Ja-
nuary. He employed his time during the interval, be-
tween his arrival and that of the First Consul, in conci-
liating, and giving several magnificent entertainments to
the Cisalpine Depoties.

Bonaparte left Paris, on the 9th, at one o'clock in the
morning, and reached Lyons on the night of the 11th*
As be approached the town, be was met and accompa-
nied by a brilliant troop of one hundred and fifty volun-
teers, all natives of that city, young men of fortune, and
selected for their imposing appearance. Thus escorted,
he entered Lyons about ten o'clock in the 'evening,
amidst the loudest acclamations, and the most rapturous,
expressions of universal joy.

Ou the grand staircase of the palace, appointed for

Napoleon's residence, the following inscription met hi*

eyes, which he is stated to have read with contempt, om

account 4( tbe ftlsome adulation it contained :

11th January, An. 10.

Bonaparte !

Vanquisher and Pacificator !

arrived in this City, and lodged in

thi* Palace:

Five hundred Cisalpine Deputies attended

Him,

to establish 9 under his Auspices,

the Laws and Destinies of their Country.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. J0$

On beholding him
the Arts awoke in this City;
Commeroe resumed its ancient
Splendour ;
/ and the grateful Lyonese, feeling

for Him ,

the same wish their Ancestor*
did for Antoninus,
exclaimed,
*' May his happiness be equal to Us glory!"
During the early part of his residence at Lyons, Bona-
parte employed his time in visiting the different manu-
factories and establishments, and in privately conferring
with the principal Cisalpine Deputies. At the hall whose
the Cemulta met, a splendid chair was prepared for him,
adorned with military trophies ; the room was decorated
with various ornaments, emblematical of his victories,
and inscribed with mottos, applicable to him and Us
fortunes.

The meetings of the Consulta were private, and they
at length appointed a committee of thirty, to prepara*
Report of the aotaal state of the Cisalpine nation, and
the means necessary for its future prosperity and happi-
ness. This committee, accordingly, presented a report,
declaring it absolutely necessary that Bonaparte himsetf
should undertake the sole end exclusive management ef
their affairs! The document was prolix, and concluded
with pressing arguments, for the First Consul to as-
sume the charge txf governing the Cisalpine nation,
which, by the treaty of Luneviile, was declared inde-
pendent 1 The report was inscribed in the prods porbei
of the Consulta, and unanimously agreed to by Ike Cis-
alpine deputies. A special committee was thpa ap~
pointed to wait upon Bonaparte with the report* wfciob
invRed him, not in his capacity of First Consol of France,
but personally as General Bonaparte, to accept the go*
vernmentof a country as populous, fertile, and rich in

Digitized by

Google

404 THE LIFE OF

resources, as any of the states of a second rank in En-
rope. The Cisalpine deputies found no difficulty in
persuading B6naparte to accept that which was the undis-
guised object of bis ambition, and the then avowed motive
of his journey to Lyons.

On the 26th of January, Napoleon, accompanied by
Talleyrand, and Cbaptal, minister of the interior, four
counsellors of state, seventy prefects of departments, and
avast train of general officers, took his seat at the Cisal-
pine Consulta, and pronounced, in his native language
(Italian), an oration, interrupted at the end of each sen-
tence by loud applause, which was then followed by the
reading of the constitution. At the moment, however,
when it was about to be pronounced, the general incli-
nation of the assembly expressed a wish to change the
name of the Cisalpine, for that of the Italian Republic,
and the , First Consul yielded to, the desire of the as-
sembly. . N

The First Consul then invited the vice-presjdent ta
place himself at his side, when he took him by the hand "
and embraced him, the assembly appearing grateful for.
this spontaneous mark of affection. Citizen Prina then
said, " If the hand that has created and defended us will
guide us, no obstacle can stop onr career, and our confi-
dence will be equal to that admiration with which the
hero, to whom we owe our happiness, inspires us."

The First Consul then broke up the sitting, and retired
to his palace, amidst the loudest acclamations. The
object of the visit to Lyons being thus obtained, he re-
turned to Paris on the 90th, Aeara, the Spanish minister,
having arrived at Amiens on the 29th.

It was now to be hoped, that some attention would be,
paid by Bonaparte to the Congress at Amiens. But,
while England was daily wondering and complaining at
(he delay that took place, a circumstance transpired, in
the course of the month of January, which developed]
©tents , that materially tended to change the basis*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4©$

on which the preliminary articles of peace bad been
signed. A treaty was officially published, which bad been
concluded in March, 1801, at Madrid, whereby Spain
ceded Louisiana to France; and by the arrangement of
that treaty, the Duchy of Parma and the Island of Elba
were also to belong to that nation at the decease of the
reigning Dnke of Parma; an event confidently expected
in a : very short time.

These enormous accessions of power, which France
had made at the very commencement of peace,; together
with the unexpected delays that took place at the Con-
gress of Amiens, caused the greatest uneasiness through-
out the British .empire, and excited universal indignation.
The month of January thus saw added to the French
Empire, either immediately or in reversion, the countries
of Lombardy, Louisiana, Parma, and the Island of Elba!

The course which the affairs of the Cisalpine Republic
had taken, and the great increase the empire. of Bona-
parte had received by the accession of such territories,
operated directly upon one of the most important stipula-
tions of the preliminary articles of peace.

The possession of the Island of Malta had appeared
to both the contracting parties as an object of. the first
importance. The agreement between England and France
was, that it should be neutral, and that neutrality was to
be secured by every precaution possible. All the great
powers of Europe were invited to guarantee this neu-
trality ; and it was also stated, that the internal organiza-
tion of the island, for its own defence, should be such
as to secure it, as much as possible, from falling into the
hands, of either of the rival powers. It was upon this
principle, that, although the island was to be restored to
the order of St. John of Jerusalem, it was, nevertheless
stipulated that there should be neither an English nor a
French language subsisting at Malta : those of both
nations were to be suppressed, and in their place,
a Maltese dialect created, whose knights were to be

Digitized by

Google

406 THE LIFE OF

chosen from the principal inhabitants and merchants
of the island. Neither French troops nor British were
to be admitted into the garrisons of the different forts ;
but, as the period fixed for its evacuation was short, and
it was not likely that a Maltese army could be so speedily
formed, as might be powerful enough to secure the neu-
trality of the bland, it was agreed that it should be gar-
risoned by Neapolitan troops, until a force of its own was
organised adequate to its defence.

At the time of the preliminary articles, this arrange-
ment had appeared feasible for preserving the neutrality
of the island ; bat subsequent events rendered thftt
arrangement totally insecure : Bonaparte, as President,
that is, Master of the Italian Republic, might extend his
empire on the other side of the Alps, even as far as the
Mediterranean itself; at least there was nothing in Italy
that seemed to oppose such a plan. But this was not the
only ciroumstance which occurred between the signing
of the preliminaries and the definitive treaty, deeply
' affecting the minds and the opinions of the people of Great
Britain.

No sooner had the preliminary articles been received
at PariB, than other treaties of peace were announced
with equal solemnity, by a grand discharge of artillery
and an ittamination. Among those was one with the
OUoj&aa Forte, and another witi) Portugal. In oat
treaty, as an equivalent for the vast colonial restitution!
which we made to France and her Allies, we hpd ex-
pressly stipulated for the integrity of the territory of those
powers, and the evacuation of the kingdom of Naples;
but, although the negotiation at London lasted a consi-
derable time, and France expressly slated such, cession?
to our allies were equivalents for those we had agreed to
make to her and ker confederates • yet, whoa the prehmina-
ries were sigaed, and she had calculated that the English
ministry would rather submit (p. be so imposed upon than
recede, she then produced the clandestine treaties which

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. fflj

bad been making, *t the same tinky feepafaately with our
allies. .

Jty those treaties the Porte had engage! that the French
bbould be on an equality vrtth the most favoured riatiori
throughout the Whole extent of the Turkish empirfe, and,
consequently, that the best <tf her friends should not, even
in a commercial point of view, be more favoured than those
who, without provocation, invaded and plundered her
dominions*

In the separate treaty *ith Portugal/ t*»t power was
to bede to France all Portuguese Guiana, as far as the
mouth of the river Amazons ; a cession that would have
opened for tbe French a way into the heart 6f South
America. France had alsd announced, as befofe-men-
tioned, a secret treaty Concluded a year before with
Spain, by which she added to her own territories Loui-
siana, Partoa, and the Island of Elba.

Bonaparte did not appear satisfied with his Italian
honours ; be openly asdutned absolute power in France ;
Which country, as well as Italy, he thenceforward seemed
to consider as bis patrimonial property. His return from
Lyons was announced at Paris, by repeated discharges
of artillery ; And, from that moment, he affected a greater
degtee of state and ceremony, and kept his generals,
who were formerly his intimate companions, at a respect-
Ail distance.

On the 6th of February, letters of a menacing natdre
were sent, by orders of the First Consul, to the Canton
of Bdrne, in which the immediate interference of France
was threatened, in consequence of the dissensions pre-
vailing among the Swiss themselves ; but, in the Valais,
more imitaediate and unequivocal proceedings on the part
of FranOe transpired.

In February, General Thureau arrived in the Valais,
set aside all the constituted authorities throughout that
little state and its dependencies, possessed himself of tbe
public treasury, the archives of the government, and the

Digitized by

Google

408 TUX LIFE OF

poet-office, and peblioly announced it as the intention of
France to incorporate that Republic with her dominion*.
"Nor were the efforts of Bonaparte less active with regard
to internal arrangements: chambers of commerce and
agriculture were established throughout his empire I so-
cieties for the encouragement of arts and manufactures,
universally convened ; rewards for eminence in . every
branch of the fine arts lavishly held forth, whilst the riches
of Italy, arranged with the utmost splendour in Paris, pro-
mised to secure to that capital, the resort and influx, of
strangers, who had once crowded to Rome, and the other
Italian cities.

, There were some who, with the inveterate blindness of
hatred and rage, saw nothing good in Bonaparte, while
others, with the wild enthusiasm, of admiration, beheld in
him a concentration of every excellence* We profess to be
neither, for impartiality forbids us : yet even his enemies
must allow, that he did more for France than half her
monarchs had accomplished. His regulations at home
were guided by the soundest policy; and he diffused
throughout France an emulation and a spirit of enterprise
which tended to. produce lasting benefits. He had every
claim upon her gratitude ; and, in this point of view*
merited to reign more than an hereditary monarch, who
happened to be born to a throne, as a private individual is
to an estate. If we refer back to the original compact
between sovereign and people, we shall find that a Bo-
naparte would maintain his seat when many entailed
crowns would be hurled from the heads they now cover.

On the 12th of March, news arrived at Brest, from
St.. Domingo, that the island was considered, upon the
whole, as highly favourable to the parent country.

Hitherto the situation of Lord Cornwallis at Amiens
had been, as before stated, . extremely irksome and disa-
greeable: the definitive treaty had been lingering for
more than three months, during which time Bonaparte
had realised every project he sought, to accomplish*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 409

At length some faint remains of British spirit manifested
themselves : the disarming system, whfch bad proceeded
to a considerable extent, was suspended ; we had already
sent ont a strong naval force to the West Indies, to
watch the motions of the Brest squadron ; a fleet had also
sailed from the Mediterranean, in consequence of the
departure of Gantheaume with a reinforcement for St.
Domingo : other measures .were alsft adopted, indicative
of warlike resolutions.

. Whether this manifestation of displeasure on the part
of Great Britain, and the consequences it threatened ;
the resolute' opposition experienced at St. Doiningo; or
that Bonaparte had completed his wishes ; be then, with-
out further hesitation, seemed anxious to expedite the
negotiation at Amiens, and bring it to an immediate con-
clusion.

There remained, apparently, but two points to occupy
the attention of the French Government ; the definitive
treaty of peace with England and the German In-
xlemnites. The latter arrangement was permitted to
slumber, and the pressure now caused by the angry tone
of Great Britain, disposed measures of an active nature
to supersede the supineness that had previously prevailed
at Amiens.

At length, as nothing more could be gained by procras-
tination, the long expected treaty was signed on the 37th
of March.

The inhabitants of Amiens were apprised of the mo-
ment of the signature's taking place, and were invited to
witness the solemnity. The welcome event" was announ-
ced next day at Paris, by Talleyrand, and proclaimed
with. the firing of cannon, and every demonstration of
joy usual on the receipt of the most flattering and wel-
come intelligence.

On the 29th of March, Mr. Moore, assistant secretary
to the mission, arrived in London, at nine o'clock in the
morning, with the news of the definitive treaty of peace

vol.11. — 27. 3 c

Digitized by

Google

416 THE LIFE OF

having been signed at Amiens at four o'clock in the after-
noon of the 27th list, by the pletHp6tedtiaries of the
different powers, parties thereto. Thus, after a feverish
interval of five months, during which period the most
important revolutions had taken plaoe in the states of
Europe, while the scale of French power was daily pre-
ponderating, the great object of the British Ministers,
and the general wish of the people of England, was ac-
complished.

A few days after the arrival of this news in London,
an official letter from Lord St. Helen's, at Petesburgh,
announced the agreement of the Courts of Sweden and
Denmark to the Convention signed with Russia* respect-
ing the rights of neutral powers ; and that the Swedish
ambassador had been distinctly informed by Count De
Hotschoubey, the Russian minister, that, as the motives
which had occasioned the late revival of a system of armed
neutrality, were now happily done away, such measures
were considered by the Court of Russia as absolutely
annulled and abandoned, not only as a general code of
maritime law, but even in it* more limited meaning, of a
special engagement between Russia, and .the otfier con-
federates.

By this declaration, joined to the effect of the Treaty
of Amiens, Great Britain was at peace and friendship
with all the powers of Europe. The least sanguine minds
confidently predicted a continuance of amity with France,
and the repose of the continent. Happy presages !
would they had been fulfilled!!

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4] j

CHAP. XII.

Peace proclaimed at London and Exchange of Ambassadors.—
Celebration qf the Concordat at Paris.— Nature of the
Concordat, and its Regulations favourable to Religious
Toleration.— A Triumphal Portico offered to be dedicated
to the Consul, and his modest Remark. — Prospect of France
for the re-capture of St. Domingo. — Institution of the
Legion of Honour. — Resignation of the King of Sardinia. —
Accession of Parma, Piedmont t j-c. to France. — The Li-
gurian Republic organized. — Unsuccessful Attempts to
establish a Commercial Intercourse between England, and
France. — Abuse 0/ Bonaparte in the English Newspapers.
— Napoleon made Consul for Ten Years, and soon after
for Life.— Affairs of Switzerland.— Letter to Citizen.
Reding, concerning the Swiss Government. — Constitution
tendered to the Switzers by France, and Commotions in that
Country. ~ Submission of the Helvetic Republic and Esta-
blishment of the Swiss Constitution.— Refusal of England
to ratify the Peace of Amiens by the Retention qf Malta.—
Preparations for War renewed. — Admiral Unois sails from
Brest ; the French occupy Tarentum, in Italy, and General
Mortier possesses himself of Hanover.— Interesting Con-
versation between Napoleon and Lord Whitwqrth. — Return
of the British Ambassador to England.— The British in
France made Prisoners of War. — Holland espouses the
Cause of the French Republic.— Proclamation of Admiral
Bruix to the Army destined to invade England:— Exposition
of the State of the French Republic.

Peace was proclaimed in the cities of London and
Westminster on the 29th of April, and the most lively
sensations of joy were expressed by the million. Illu-
minations of a splendid nature took place, and M. Otto's

Digitized by

Google

412 THE LIFE OF

house was distinguished for its peculiar magnificence. A
carious circumstance occurred with regard to this gentle-
man, which, as indicative of the national character, it may
be worth while to mention. Attracted by the preparations
at his house in Portman-sqoare, the mob took notice that
the word concord was put in coloured lamps over the
door ; the reading of John Bull, however, was CON-
QUEUED, who inferred, that England was conquered
by France : disturbances and riot were, in consequence,
about to commence; when M. Otto, after some fruitless
attempts at explanation, prudently conceded, and sub-
stituted the word AMITY. But it did not end here ; for
some' sailors found out that 6. R. was not surmounted, as
usual, by a crown ; this they peremptorily insisted should
be done, and a lamp, forming a diadem, was immediately
procured.

The public now anxiously began to look for the arrival
of the French ambassador, and the departure of Lord
Whitworth, appointed to fill that important situation at
the First Consul's court, on the part of England, fror
could it be satisfactorily accounted for why any delay
should have arisen in this ordinary diplomatic arrange-
ment. The nomination of the French ambassador had
taken place about the same time as the English ; viz. in
April : the choice of the First Consul fell upon General
Andreossy, who had served under Bonaparte in Egypt.
Yet, notwithstanding these early appointments, General '
Andreossy did not arrive in England, nor Lord Whitworth
sail for France, till the 10th of November following.

There was now nothing of importance to disturb the
peace of Europe, and Bonaparte had leisure to pursue
those schemes of ambition that dawned upon his mind.
In order, therefore, to give a permanent duration to the
poorer h* had assumed, he felt it necessary to conciliate
the affections and sooth the passions of the different par-
ties. Hitherto the people of France had submitted to be
a mere instrument of every party, as it happened to

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4 \ 3

predominate in the councils of that distracted country ;
bnt it was well known that the great majority of the
population (particularly the peasantry) Was much dis-
satisfied at the abolition of their ancient religion, and
wished to see it again reinstated in its former splendour.
Bonaparte was folly aware of this predominant inclination;
and bad, therefore, daring the war, entered into a con-
vention with the Pope* by which the new system of the
Gallioan chnrch was completely settled. This . instru-
ment, or* as it was styled, Concordat, dated the 10th of
September, 1801, was not made public till a fortnight
after the signature of the Treaty of Amiens.

This celebrated political manoeuvre was announced to
the Parisians and the population of the French Republic,
by a proclamation of the First Consul, dated April th£
17th ; and a solemn celebration of that event took plac6
in the cathedral of Notre Dame, the metropolitan church
of Paris, on the ensuing day, which was Sunday.

The magnificence of the fete, which established and
proclaimed the Catholic religion in France, was fat
greater and more dazzling than had attended any so-
lemnity since the Revolution. The procession of the
government to the cathedral emulated every description
of custom, luxury, and pomp. The constituted author
rities were drawn up, in the cathedral, by eleven o'clock,
at which hour the procession moved from the Tuileries.
The First Consul was preceded by the corps diplomatique^
the council of state, the general officers, and the minis-
ters. His carridge was drawn by eight horses, each led
by a servant in superb livery ; and his oorps of Mameluke*
also attended, in the richest costumes. In the church,
the family of Bonaparte was seated in the most conspi-
cuous situation, above all the constituted authorities- of
the Republic. The ceremony was performed with great
pomp. The anthems and appropriate music were by the
first composers in France, and .the execution was in no
way inferior. Every splendour that consuls, cardinals,

Digitized by

Google

414 THE LIFE OF

bishops, archbishops, and the Pope's legate, could con-
tribute to the re-establishment of the Catholic faith, was
most profusely lavished at this solemnity. The magnifi-
cence of the spectacle, as well as the occasion, were
highly pleasing to the French people : and this step added
considerably to increase the popularity of Bonaparte.
It most, however, be remarked, that the Republicans
were much displeased, and several of the military obeyed
with the utmost reluctance an order to salute the cross,
which was carried before the procession.

The importance of the Concordat, so far as it ooncerned
religious liberty in general, was, undoubtedly, beyond
all precedent. No event of equal concern, or pregnant
with such good effects as regarded Christianity, had ever
before taken place since the papacy and princes, governed
•by its pernicious policy, had usurped the sacred and
unalienable rights of conscience. This Concordat, in a
word, released the Catholic clergy from all exclusive
•obedience and obligation to the Pope, and placed them
where they ought to be, at the disposal of the prince and
the people. Hitherto we had only seen the head of the
French government acting in the capacity of a skilful
warrior, and the most consummate general of his age ;
now he shone forth in a character far more illuslrioos,
the deliverer of the continent from the ecclesiastioal yoke,
which neither the then generation nor their fathers had
been able to support. If, therefore, Napoleon was not
acknowledged as the religious prince, we must admit
that he figured the profound politician, the friend of
peace, and the healer of animosities. The fifth article
of the Concordat took all civil power out of the hands of
the ecclesiastics, and placed it in tha^ of the prince, and
the laws of the country. The archbishops and bishops
swore and promised, upon the holy gospels, obedience
and fidelity to the government, &c. ; and that (no longer
forming an interest separate from the state) they would
have no understanding with, or take part in any suspected

Digitized by LjOOQIC

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4 IS

association which might J>e prejadicai to public Irani
quillity, &c. To superficial, observers, or those party
writers who wished to make it appear that there wAs
nothing to be apprehended, from the papal prerogative,
and the privileges of established churches, the Concordat
might seem a mere political artifice. Bat what did they
urge against it whose privileges .it had abridged?
Though it did not change 0/ alter a single, dogma or arti-
cle in the faith, professed by the church of Rdme, yet they
contended (viz. the enemies of Bonaparte) that it had
destroyed the Catholic religion ! which sufficiently proved
the weight and importance such priests attached to their
ancient and exclusive privileges, whereby they had pos-
sessed power to disturb the peace of kingdoms, and
harass or persecute the subject without the ability of the
prince to interfere in his. behalf ! This accounts for the
motives of those emigrants who refused to return oi
subscribe to tbe Concordat, merely because their revenues
were abridged. In fact, to those British subjects who
entertained a mean opinion of Bonapart&'s Concordat, it
was aptly observed, that they undervalued the dignity and
prerogatives of their own sovereign : for, till this conces-
sion had been obtained from the Pope by Bonaparte, even
the Elector of Hanover, in common with every other
Protestant prince, was not acknowledged by the Pontif ;
wherefore, if any Catholic prince, more powerful than
the King of Great Britain, could have deprived him of
any, or all his dominions, there was, till the Concordat
was thus agreed upon, no law to prevent it. In the
Pontifical, or Court Calendar, as. then. printed at Rome,?
no mention was made of an Elector of Hanover, or of
the Kingdom, or Duchy of Prussia. In the Roman
genealogical table of the latter house, printed no longer
ago than the 1783, the Great Frederick is thus described :
Charles Frederick, (Marcheae) Marquis, a title ao trifling
at Rome as to be ridiculous. Prince Henry of Prussia
is therein described, not as the king's brother, but

Digitized by

Google

416 THE LIFE OF

brother to the Marquis ! Till Bonaparte arose, no prince
ever possessed sufficient power or address to compel the
Popes to renounce their assumed rights over kingdoms
and states. Nor could even the meek and saintly Piur
the Vltb, when he travelled into Germany, in 1782, be
prevailed upon to grant the King of Prussia a formal re-
cognition of the crown. As Pius did not, however, at
that time, wish to embroil himself with a German prince,
be answered politely, promising that, on his return to
Rome, he would assemble a congregation of cardinals,
without whom he could come to no determination, or de-
liberate upon the subject. This congregation was never
convened, nor had the Pope any intention of fulfilling his
promise.

But there was something still more mischievous in the
public proceedings and conduct of the Popes towards
Protestants before the Concordat was agreed upon ; viz*
His Holiness did not merely refuse to do all the good in
bis power for the Protestants, but positively did tbenr
manifest injury, by instilling principles of hatred and
animosity into the minds of the people at large. Every
year, during the service of Holy Thursday, the Pope
excommunicated and cursed all heretics, particularly the
Lutherans, in the following terms : " We, therefore, ac-
cording to the ancient and solemn, form, excommunicate
and anathematize on our own, and the part of the Al-
mighty Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, all persons fol-
lowing the heresy of the impious and abominable Martin
Luther, with all the favourers and receivers of the books
of the said Martin, &c." In respect to the more famous
hull, entitled In Cana Domini; written in 1610, by
Paul V. and promulgated, in 1627, by Urban VIII. there
is a complete collection of the anathemas issued centuries
ago against those who might be refractory to the. prders
of the Vicar of Christ. It, therefore, excommunicates
heretics, .schismatics, pirates, and corsairs ; all who dare
to appeal to a future council against the bulls and briefs

Digitized by LjOOQIC

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 417

of the Pope ; princes who establish new taxes without
the permission of the Papal power; those who make
treaties of alliance with Turks or heretics ; such., as com-
plain to the secnlar judges against the wrongs and in-
juries received from the court of Rome, &c. &c. all
which insolent prohibitions were formerly read and pro-
mulgated once a year in France and other countries over
which the Popes assumed an authority. It is true that,
in 1763, some members of the Gallican church, which
bad often resisted, on former occasions, the Papal usur-
pation, put a stop to the annual reading of this bull in
the French provinces of Roussillon and Cerdagne; but it
is no less true that its promulgation was never effectually
stopped until Holy Thursday, 1607, when its usual
reading at Rome was, for the first time, dispensed with !
The Concordat certainly did not stipulate for any such
measure ; and this proved that Bonaparte,, with whom it
must have originated, had resolved that the spirit of the
Concordat should be respected even where the letter was
silent. The object Napoleon had in view was to deprive
the Papal clergy ef all interference whatsoever with the
civil power.

It has been uniformly admitted that the Consul's general
plan was to unite vigour with lenity ; to amuse and gratify
the French people as much as possible ; to qualify, or
rather overawe, liberty, privileges, and pretensions, by, a
complicated chain of dependencies on himself, and by
the command of an immense army : but, at the same time,
it is but justice, to observe, that his power was neither
exercised with wanton caprice nor unemployed in pro-
moting the public welfare. In those preferments he made
merit was uniformly the first qualification considered.
He restored i\e operation of laws, and, as much as he
could, that of religion.

The following must, certainly, be admitted as a fine
trait in Napoleon's character. When the General Council
of the Department of the Seine requested Bonaparte U

vol. 11.— 27. 3 H

Digitized by

Google

418 THKttFEOF

accept tie project of a triumphal portico, to be raised
upon the spot where the ancient Chtfeiet bad stood, and
which was to hare cost the government 600,000 livres,
be returned for answer : " I view with grateful acknow-
ledgement* those, sentiments which actuate the magistrates
of the <Ji|y of Paris. The idea of dedicating monumen-
tal trophies to those men who have rendered themselves
useful to the community is a praiseworthy action in
nations. I accept the offer of the monument which yoa
are anxious to dedicate to me j let the spot be designated \
but leave the labour of constructing it to future genera-
tions, should they think fit to sanction the good opinion
which yon testify towards me."

Notwithstanding the Republican government of France
had been branded with the odious names of despotism and
tyranny, the forms of liberty were still admitted to exist
in that country. It was thence customary for the Execu-
tive Government to lay before the Legislature, at stated
periods, an expose, or st*te of the nation, resembling the
King of Great JBritaiq's speeches op the opening of par-
liament* Ip the first of the former, after settling the
preliminaries of peace, Bonaparte observed, " That the
English people had embraced peace with enthusiasm.
The hatred of rivalship is extinguished : the emulation of
great actions and useful epterprizes only remain." He
then observed that " The government, from the first day
of its institution, had proclaimed liberty of conscience.
That such solemn act calmed the minds which had been
terrified by imprudent rigours; and the cessation of
religious dissension was then announced. A magistrate,
charged with every thing that concerned public worship,
had attended to the rights of every sect, and collected,
in conference with the Lutheran and Calvinist ministers,
the information necessary to prepare regulations which
wopld secure to all the liberty which belonged to them*"

The prospect of peace with England had induced the
First Consul to turn his thoughts to the recovery of the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEOH BONAPARTE. 4]f)

valuable colony of Si. Domingo to Franoe. The cele-
brated General Tonssaint Lonverture was one of the last
chieftains who bad risen into Consequence in that devoted
island, after a struggle between the blacks and whites,
during nearly fonr years, from 1796 to 1798, in which
the English, unfortunately, taking part with the French
inhabitants, who wished to place themselves under the
British yoke, suffered the most dreadful mortality, by
Sickness more than the sword, and were at length com-
pelled to evacuate the island, at a period when, oat of
their whole number, not more than 1,100 were left alive.

It would extend oar limits too far were we to expand npon
the operations in the West Indies carried on by order of
the Consular Government, and we shall therefore proceed
to develop* the events more intimately connected with the
personal history of Napoleon to which England was so
feelingly alive.

We have previously observed that the present year was
that of treaties, which consolidated the power of the French
government abroad, while the creation of a Legion of
Honour,* and Bonaparte's erection of himself to the
Presidentship of the Italian Republic, added to his se-
curity at home. Daring this year Charles Emanuel,
of Sardinia, weary of being a monarch with a mere
nominal kingdom, voluntarily abdicated hia throne in
favour of his biwther Viotor Emasmei, Dnfcemf Aoast,
then banished, as it were, to the little island otf Sardinia:

• Napoleon, like Burke, had an eye to " the cheap defence of
nations ;" after beating down all the republican forms and usages, he
infused hemic sentiments into the minds of (His soWHert *»d jfre youth
of Fiance, by means of the milliner and the toy-shop— half a yard
of scarlet ribbon, and a little badge of gold. These were sent, not
to warriors alone, but to man of letters and men of safenot, and hs
himself holding a solemn court at the Tutferies, in the year .1804*
from a golden vase first bestowed these Insignia, in the form of crossed,
aa the commanders of the legion.

The Legion of Honour possessed a palaceand coosidetahje revenues.
The sons were educated at the expense of the nation, and the daugk-
&rs'Werebfeti up without cost td Jtheir parents*

Digitized by

Google

420 THE LIFE OF

Piedmont and the Duchy of Parma were then made in-
tegral departments of France. The once magnificent
city of Genoa, and qll its territory, under the name of
the Ligurian Republic, became equally French provinces,
in every thing but the name, though the government .was
vested in a Doge, whose functions were to continue six
years, and a senate, comprised of thirty members, one-
third of whom was to be changed every three years.
Even in this little establishment a naval force was not
overlooked, Genoa being bound to support two ships of
74 guns, two frigates, and four corvettes.

The First Consul bad an equal right, with Mr. Pitt,
to study the prosperity of his own country ; and there can
be no doubt, as he saw the vast accession of territory
and influence likely to accrue to France, it was on that
account .the unaccommodating temper of the Consular
Government soon became manifest ; for, with respect to
England's pressing the French for a commercial con-
nexion, the cry on their part was " The Treaty of Amiens !
and nothing but the Treaty of Amiens !" About that
time, also, a decree, prohibiting the importation of British
manufactures on the left bank of the Rhine, placed the
matter beyond all doubt. England put an hostile con-
struction upon this and several other measures which the
First Consul adopted to employ and excite the industry
of his own subjects, and the London newspapers, on that
account, became se coarse, personal, and scandalous in
• their abuse, that, on the 20th of August, 1802, the cir-
culation of English newspapers was prohibited through-
out France. In the meantime, Bonaparte, after being
named to the Consulship for ten years, was shortly after
appointee} by the government to hold the dignity of First
Consul of th$ French Republic for hfe. The next step
was the senate enabling him to appoint his successor; and
it can scarcely be doubted that Napoleon, from that
period> entertained the design of becoming Emperor,
these steps being adopted as preliminary measures to the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 421

accomplishment of that important end. When made per-
jttaaent Consul, Bonaparte obscurely hinted at something
like a divine right to suoh station; and observed that
" He was called by HIM from whom all things emanate
to restore upon earth justice, order, and equality !"*

* Whether Napoleon's aggrandizement was effected without oppo-
sition, the following anecdotes will fully demonstrate. When Bona-
parte was proposed to be made First Consul for life, votes were taken
on that point The printed form ran thus : u Napoleon Bonaparte-
shall he Consul for rife?" This was transmitted to M. Otto, when he
resided in London, as French commissary for the exchange of prisoners
of war, to be signed by himself and the other official characters,
M. fioucbe, who was then secretary to M. Otto, alone signed bis
name against the proposition, and added the following as his reason :
" There is no necessity for making Bonaparte First Consul for life, to
insure his continuance* as First Consul for ever. The question, more-
over, is impolitic. By negativing it we immortalize— by deciding ia
the affirmative we destroy him. liberty forbids — the repose of the
world is against it— the glory and happiness of France, and even of
Bonaparte himself, are averse to it. No ! he must not be so. (Signed)
Bouche. Secretary of tlte French commission for the exchange of
prisoners in England"

M. Otto turned pale on reading the vote, and letting the printed
form fall on the table, observed to Bouche, that he was a lost man,
and asked how he could give such a vote.— Bouche answered, " I
think I have sufficiently explained why I have voted in this, as you
-think, extraordinary way ; but if you desire a more decisive reason,
it is that:— if we (France) concede thus much, Bonaparte will never
ask any thing further ; he will take alL" To which M. Otto hastily
replied, walking away,—" If I had thought as you do, I would have
voted as you have done." Bouche at that time foresaw that Na-
poleon would make himself Emperor,, and quoted the words applied
to Cesar— Digitus imperii (vet imperio) *i nan imperasset (vcl
4wmcravissct).

The republican party in France, although long checked by the
coercive measures of imperial authority, was, nevertheless, and still
continues powerful in the extreme, regarding as equally obnoxious
the Bonapartean as well as the Bourbon line. This class of men uni-
formly kept Napoleon upon the alert, for he* never feared the emi-
grants or ancient nobles, concerning whom he was once known to ex-
press himself in the following terms :—

" Cent sant pas les emigres ni la vielle noblesse que je redoute,
car je les chasserai avec un coup de baguette quand il tncplaira;
nuns cen*cit pas de mime aoec les rtpubtlcains qui restent ferme et
n'abandannent jamais leurs principes, qui seront long-temps cherts
par la rnqjoriUde la nation.h

"It is not the emigrants nor the ancient nobility who give me
cause for apprehension, for I can chase them at pleasure with a switch ;
but it is otherwise with the republicans, who continue firm, and nevqr

Digitized by

Google

422 THE LIFE OF

The daily extension of Bonaparte'* power gave very
eeriooa uneasiness to the Emperor of Germany, as well

abandon their principles, which
of the nation.'1

will long be cherished by (he majority

In a variety of instances Bonaparte was so far from showing a vin-
dictive spirit, that he rather displayed a placable and forbearing one.
Raderer, who once accused him of traitorous projects against (he
freedom of the country, was so far from finding himself on this
accoQut an object of his vengeance or persecution, that he was made
a counsellor of state. Camus, who voted against the consulate for life
being conferred upon him, was, notwithstanding, promoted to the
rank of senator. And Carnot, who voted against him both upon that
occasion and when he was elected emperor, had his choice of any
post of honour or emolument which he chose to fill, though, for a
time, he declined all. It is generally believed that, even before he
was employed by the emperor, he was often consulted by him on
military affairs, and that he never, on any occasion, refused his ad-
vice when he considered his country as having a claim to it.

In the beginning of the summer of 1802, some officers of rank, en-
thusiastic republicans, took considerable umbrage at several instances
of Bonaparte's conduct ; in consequence of which the whole of the
discontented determined to go and remonstrate with hkn upon the
points that had given them offence, and to speak their in tads to him
very freely. In the "evening of the same day that this expostulation
was to have taken place, one of the party gave the following account
of the interview :—

" I do not know whence it arises, but there is a charm about that
man which is indescribable and irresistible. I am no admirer x>f him ;
I dislike the power to which he has risen ; yet I cannot help confessing
(hat there is a something in him which seems to speak that he is born to
command. We went into his apartment, determined to declare our'
minds to him very freely; to expostulate with him warmly, and not
to depart till our subjects of complaint were removed. But in his
manner of receiving us there was a certain je ne mm qtnrit a degree
of fascination which disarmed us in a moment ; nor oouM we utter
one word of what we had intended to say. He talked to us for a
long time with an eloquence peculiarly his own, explaining with the
•utmost clearness and precision the necessity for steadily pursuing the
line of conduct he bad adopted ; and, without c*Mwfadictiag«s ia
direct terms, he controverted our opinions *o ably <thtt we had nat a
Tord to say m reply ; so that we left him, having 'done nothing «tee
but listen to him, instead of expostulating with Mm ; and fully con-
vinced, at least for the moment, that he was in the right, and that we
were in the wrong.'*

A similar kind of fascination was experienced by the merchants at
Wouen, when he made his progress through the north of France in
the autumn of the same year. They had intended to remonstrate
warmly against some regulations which had recently been made * re-
epectrag the commerce of the mother country with her colonies ; but
when they talked with him upon the subject, he received them in a

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 429

as to th* English ; so amch so, that the taperidCahiAet,
though bound by the Treaty of LwoaviUe to admit of
the Gersaaa iojdeniiitiqs, and the seeilerfeetioii of several
of the ecclesiastical sovereignties, was* nevertheless,
extremely averse to the prosecution of this wgratefal
business. The court ef Vienna even remonstrated
against (be recent proceedings of the First Consul, in
annexing the duchies of Parma and Plaoenna, to the
French Jlepoblio, It appealed, that, by the Treaty of
AixrlarCbapeUe* in 1748, the House of Austria claimed
the soooession to those sovereignties* in case of the
failure of issue in the reigning branch. It was, bow*
e? er, no time to revive old chums, and the reluctance of
the Emperor to enter upon the German indemnities, pro*
bably, urged Bonaparte to hasten them. The French
treaty with Russia, it soon% appeared, referred to the
business that was to be opened at Ratisboo, and the Em-
peror of Russia was called in as one of its guarantees*
This proved, in some respects, an unhappy precedent,
because it was upon the ground of the Emperor of
Russia's guarantee that he, afterwards, interfered, to*
gether with the King of Sweden, in order, as they urged,
tp preserve the Germanic constitution. In a matter
where so many jarring interests were implicated, where
states and principalities were to be again portioned out;
where the lesser powers were to be sacrificed as re-

manner which won so much upon them, and gave them such satisfac-
tory reasons for what he bad dene, that tbey left him, convinced that
he undentood their interests much better than tbey did themselves*

During his campaign in Italy, in 1797, the Directory, beginning to
crow jealous of bis rising fame and popularity, despatched General
Clarke from Paris to the army upon some frivolous pretence, but in
reality to inquire and to make a report upon the general's proceedings.
General Clarke not only found nothing exceptionable in his conduct,
but saw so much to admire aad applaud, that he became enthusiasti-
cally attached to him, and ever afterwards devoted himself entirely
to following his fortunes.*— In like manner the emperor of Russia,
from being his great antagonist, became, on being personally ac-
quainted with him, his warm admirer.

Digitized by

Google

424 THE UFK OF

numerations to the greater, it was not strange that the
proceedings should be rather tardy. Nothing was effec-
tually arranged till the 17th of July, when the Emperor
of Germany transmitted an edict to the Diet of Ratisbon,
stating, that he had not ceased to occupy his attention
with the means of terminating the important business of
the peace; but that he found the principal parties had
in the mean time applied to Russia and France, and soli-'
cited the mediation of those powers in order to obtain
the indemnities they required : that Russia bad, con-
sequently, proposed to open negotiations at Paris, in
February 1802 ; and that, soon after, a contention was
concluded, without his (the Emperor of Austria's) parti-
cipation, between France and Russia, wherein it was
desired his Imperial Majesty would direct the definitive
arrangements, according to the constitution. It was thus,
by the superior policy and influence of Bonaparte, that
the ancient and stupendous fabric of die Germanic empire
was shaken, and, as it were, dismembered piecemeal.
The Emperor, however, seeing all his authority on the
point of being wrested from him, submitted, for the time,
with the best grace possible; he, nevertheless, by his
persevering objections, obtained terms rather* more ad-
vantageous than might have been expected, for his royal
relative, the Grand Duke of Tuscany. The newly mo*
dified scheme of indemnities was called, A Supplement
' to the Plan ; according to which the Elector of Mentz
obtained the cities of Ratisbon and Wetzlar ; the Princes
of Baden, Wirtemberg, and Hesse Cassel, were made
Electors ; while the King of England accepted the ces-
sion of the Bishopric of Osnaburgh, as a compensation
for Hildesheim, Corvey, and Hoexter, provided Osna-
burgh was oeded to him in perpetuity, having formerly
only possessed a right of alternate nomination to that
bishopric; added to this, his Britannic Majesty aban-
doned, on behalf of the cities of Hamburgh and Bremen,
the rights and property he had exercised in and over

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 42f

them* But, to raise the interest of France in the Ger-
man empire upon the ruins of the House of Austria, the
First Consul and his Majesty the Emperor of Russia
agreed, that it was at once possible and suitable to pre*
serve in the empire an ecclesiastical elector. They pro*
posed, in consequence, that the Arch-chancellor should
be transferred to Ratisbon, with the Abbey of St. Emeran,
Ober Monster, and Neider Munster ; preserving his an-
cient possession of the great bailiwick of Aschaffenburg,
on the right bank of the Main. This new officer, after-
wards proved to be a person of great consequence in
promoting the interest of the French empire.

In the meantime, a dispute between the Elector of
Bavaria, and his neighbour, the Bishop of Passau, nearly
proceeded to blows, upon which occasion the Emperor of
Germany supported the latter, and took possession of the
bishopric, to keep it out of the hands of the former.

On the 22d of August, the Emperor, could no longer
refrain from causing his commissary, Baron Hugel, to
express his displeasure to the Diet. The Baron flattered
the newly conquered Germans, by styling them free, in-
dependent nation ; and mentioned the Emperor's surprize,
that they should permit two foreign powers to prescribe
roles for its internal concerns. On the 24th, the same
complaints were renewed in an imperial rescript, which
was answered on the 28th by the French minister,
Laforet, who simply enforced the declaration of the two
mediating powers. The Emperor again expressed his
dissatisfaction as to indemnities granted to the Grand
Duke of Tuscany; but, on the 8th of September, the
influence of France rose predominant in the diet ; the
plan of indemnities, after much debate, was accepted,
and a conclusum voted accordingly. The court of Vienna,
still thinking its interests neglected, had instructed
Baron Hugel, to refuse ratifying that document. At
length, in the thirtieth sitting of the deputation, on the
22d of November, a final conclusum was voted, and
. vol. ii.— 27. 3 i

Digitized by

Google

426 THE LIFE OF

ultimately, though with great reluctance, acceded to by
the Emperor, with tery few amendment* ; whereby, as it
was observed, a total, ted a violent alteration was effected
in the map of Germany ; the constitution of which suf-
fered a much greater infraction than that accomplished
by the treaty of Westphalia, and the thirty years9 war,
when the arrogance of the House of Austria had been
humbled by the heroic Gustavus Adolphus, and Prince
Maurice, of Saxony. Thus, by virtue of treaties, and
force of arms, France, under the First Consul, had ac-
quired an extent of territory of four thousand five hqndred
square miles, with an additional population of four mil-
lions three hundred and eighty-one thousand one hundred
and sixty-eight inhabitants ; comprehending Savoy, Nice,
Avignon, the Austrian Netherlands, Geneva, and all the
German possessions on the left bank of the Rhine;
together with Parma, Placentia, Piedmont, and the island
of Elba, comprising a population of nearly one million
mora. Added to this, France exercised an unlimited
control over the whole of Italy, the United Provinces,
and the Republic of Genoa; while Spain, Portugal,
and Prussia, were looked upon much in the same light
as her allies.

The conquest, or rather the annexation, of Switzerland
to the French Republic was an event which subse-
quently called forth the most severe animadversions
from the pen of every one then advocating war. Ac-
cording to those politicians Switzerland was an earthly
paradise till the French appeared and converted the gar-
den into a desert, and its happy inhabitants into mourners
and slaves. The Swiss government, also, according to
those writers, was as pure and perfect as the people were
innocent; and in regard to Swiss liberty, it could be ex-
ceeded no where but in England !

It may be necessary to premise, that from the local
and relative situation of Switzerland, it was impossible
for her to have preserved her neutrality in such a contest

Digitized by

Google '

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 447

ai that which bod taken place between Austria and
France. In fact, she had forfeited it to the former
almost at the very commencement of the war, by suffering
her territory to be violated by the Aostrians, to the pre-
judice of the French, without even protesting against
snob a measure ; when the Swiss government of one of
the cantons broke a commandant, for only firing a salute
in honour of General Bonaparte, on passing through the
town as 4 mere individual, on his return from Italy : and
by the countenance and support afforded to the French
royalists, who had fixed themselves in Switzerland, the
better to carry on their intrigues against the new French
government.

Under all these considerations, it could not be supposed
that a general, so consummate as Napoleon, would suffer
Switzerland to become allied to his enemy at that or any
future period. That juncture was, therefore, thought
proper for introducing the new Constitution which bad
been prepared for the Swiss. In Bonaparte's expose it
was noticed, that Switzerland bad repeatedly applied to
him for protection, and even previous to his departure
from Paris, the annexed letter was delivered from the
French government to Citizen Reding, Chief Magistrate
of Switzerland.*

"Paris, January 6.
• «' Citizen Reding,
" Two years ago, your countrymen consulted the First Consul
with regard to their affairs. He spoke to them as the First Magistrate
of the Gauls would have done at the period when Helvetia formed a
part of Gaul. The counsels which he then gave them might have
conducted the nation to prosperity, and saved it two years of troubles.
You appear animated by a desire for the welfare of your country ;
let your fellow-citizens second you, and Helvetia will at length be
re-established among the powers of Europe* The events of war led
the French armies into your territories. The desire of liberty armed'
your people, and especially those of the country, against privileges.
Events of an opposite nature have succeeded ; in the course of a few
years you have undergone poignant misfortunes. A great result
awaits you, — the equality and liberty of your fellow-citizens. At this
clay, whether a Swiss is born on the borders of the Leman or

Digitized by

Google

428 THE L*FE °F

The Constitution designed for the Swiss did not, by
any means, please' them ; though its enemies allow that
it was generally accepted in the greater cantons. Bat in
the Valais, or Pays de Vaud, the symptoms of disaffection
were first publicly manifested, though the presence of a
French army soon quelled the malcontents. In the three
ban tons of Schweitz, Uri, and Underwalden, the oppo-
sition was most violent: they, with Appenzel, openly
declaring themselves in a state of insurrection. A con-
siderable part of the summer was passed in threats and
recriminations between the French party in Switzerland,
called the New Government, and the refractory cantons.
The latter, called the Patriots, though in reality the
partizans of the old aristocracy, notwithstanding the
inferiority of their force, appointed commanders, form-
ed magazines, and prepared to take the field. General
Andermatt and the Commissary-general, Keller, were
despatched against them : but, without waiting for the
attack, on the 27th August, the insurgents advanced,
and carried the post of Rany, occupied by a company
of carabineers ; the captain of whicb> and about 30 men

the Aar, he is equally free. That is the only distinct article in your
present political situation. The basis of the public law of Europe,
at this moment, is to maintain, in each country, its existing order.
If all the powers have adopted this principle, it is, because all have
need of peace, and the return of diplomatic and commercial relations.
The French people, therefore, ought, as far as in them lies, to
maintain your country in its existing state. True, indeed, you are
without organization, without government, without a national voice :
why then will not your countrymen make one effort! Let them
call forth the patriotic virtues of their fore-fathers : let them sacri-
fice the spirit of system and of faction to a love for the welfare and
liberty of their country : you will then no longer fear to be swayed by
the residue of a temporary faction ; you will have a government,
because it will be supported by public opinion, and founded on the
will of the nation. All Europe will' renew its relations with you.
France will not stop to consider her personal interests ; she will make
-all the sacrifices which may tend to secure your Constitution, and
the liberty and equality of your fellow-citizens. She will continue
to show every mark of parental kindness for you, who, after a lapse of
so many ages, form a connection of two independent divisions of
the same people.' *

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 429

were killed. On the 7th of September/ a suspension of
arms was agreed upon, only to be broken at three days'
notice. In the meantime, the cantons of Claris, the two
districts of Baden, and a part of the Orisons, openly
joined the confederacy — that of Zug manifested the
same spirit; and the French General, Andermatt, was
compelled to send several companies of troops of the
line, to take possession of Zurich ; the inhabitants of
which city refused to admit them. The unexpected
arrival of this force produced great agitation among the
citizens ; they collected very tutnultuously ; and, as the
effervescence seemed rapidly to increase, the tnuniei*
pality, not choosing to take upon itself all the respon-
sibility, thought proper to call forth to its assistance sit
persons of the greatest influence in the town. After due
deliberation, it was resolved to guard against all surprise
by refusing admission to the troops. The municipality
of Zurich, therefore, wrote to the Helvetic commandant,
that the citizens would guard their own walls, and wished
to see too more foreign troops among them : that, not*
withstanding, he would be permitted to enter, on con*
dition that his soldiers should be lodged in barracks,
guarded by the "citizens. Immediately afterwards, citi*
eens Veiss and Schintz left Zurich to have an explanation
with the central government, which took place on the
7th of September. General Andermatt, informed of
these movements, left Lucerne on the 12th, with all the
troops and artillery in the place. He arrived at night,
before Zurich; and, at half-past two in the morning,
caused the town to be summoned, by sqund of
trumpet, to open its gates. The commandant of Zurich
replied, that he would send his request to the munici-
pality, and wait its orders ; upon which General Ander*
matt began to bombard the town with shells. At nine
o'clock, he offered to suspend hostilities, provided a part
of the town was put into his hands, until he could receive
ulterior orders from his government, and an armistice was

Digitized by

Google

430 TUEUFEOF

agreed upon till the, 18th, at six o'clock in the evening;
but the citizens, enraged at the assault, and encouraged
by the bad socoess of the morning's attack, as none bad
been killed or wounded, and the fire occasioned by the
sheila was soon extinguished, refused all other arrange-
ment

In the meantime, the cantons of Baden and Argovia
rose in mass, and possessed themselves of Bragg and
Lensbourg, Aloys Reding, who had taken part against
the French, was declared chief: and though Zurich had
been obliged to capitulate to General Andermatt,, Fribonrg
re-constituted itself, while Berne was obliged to capi-
tulate, in turn, to the Swiss party, on the 18th of Sep-
tember, after an obstinate action under its walls. The
Switaers were oommanded by Messrs. Watteville,
D'Erlacb, and Effinguer, and consisted of the peasantry
of Argovia, Soleure, and Oberland— and the Swiss
troops, on the French side, fired from the ramparts of
Berne upon those peasants who bad thrown some shot
into the place, which, however, merely damaged the
town house. At length, after a severe combat, the
French party were obliged to capitulate, and a suspension
of arms was agreed upon, including General Andermatt
and his troops. M. de Watteville, the Swiss leader,
was named Commander-in-Chief, and waited on the
French Minister, Verninac, who, it is said, gave him a
most obliging reception*

About this period, Aran surrendered to the forces
under D'Erlacb, as did Soleure, to a party of Argovians,
without firing a gun; and Andermatt, who had been
abruptly recalled from Zurich, before the capitulation of
Berne, and left that city in possession of his heavy ar-
tillery, being, it is said, closely pursued by Aloys Reding,
must have been taken or destroyed, had he net been
included in the above capitulation.

The Swiss Insurgents, on the other hand, were no
sooner established at Berne, than they began to assume

Digitized by LjOOQIC

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 43 1

the reins of government. They issued a proclamation
wherein they gave eaeh of the cantons permission to*
choose and regulate their local governments, and recom-
mended a liberal and rational plan for regulating and
ensuring Helvetic independence.

However, while this new Swiss government was settling
itself at Berne, the members of the old one, established
by the partisans of France, were at Lausanne, to which
place they had bqen driven by the Spanish, and other
ministers, at peace with France. As neither of the parties •
were conquered, both seemed to act as if they meant to
gain time, when a proclamation from Bonaparte, First
Consnl of the French Republic, appeared, which operated
like a thunder-clap npon the new Swiss government, as,
thereby, an end was pat to all the hopes it had indulged
of any new modifications in its fa? oar.

Notwithstanding this document, which decidedly stated
that the views of the Consnl were only directed to ensure
the liberty of Switzerland, and extinguish the intestine
dissensions that ravaged that country, on the 3d of
October, hostilities were renewed between the Swiss and
the French party, along the whole line, when the Swiss
were successful at every point. The Helvetic govern-
ment was preparing to fly from Lausanne to Geneva,
when, en the 4th, Citieen Rapp, the Chief Consul's aid-
de-camp, arrived with the proclamation above alluded1
to, which inspired the Helvetic government with courage
to remain at Lausanne; and Citiaen Rapp proceeded
to lay his proclamation before the Swiss committee at
Berne, when that body returned for answer, that it had
referred every thing to the Swiss diet, sitting at Schwitz,
which had the charge of afl important state matters. On
the 6th, the commander of the Swiss troops and another
officer found it neceasary to repair to Lausanne with a flag?
of trace, proposing an armistice between the Swiss and
Helvetic troops, till the diet at Schwita should come to

Digitized by

Google

432 THE LIFE 0F *

some resolution respecting Bonaparte's proclamation, and
on the 8th, the diet returned its answer*

This was observed to be the expiring effort of Helve-
tic freedom: as, subsequently, ail resistance to the arms
of France was deemed unavailing, owing to the lenient
proposals of the First Consul. The remaining troops of
the Swiss insurgents were in consequence disbanded ; and,
on the 17th of October, the senate resumed its possession
of Berne. In vain had the patriots, or, as they should
have been termed, the old aristocrats of Switzerland,
appealed to the powers of Europe ; the court of Vienna
dreaded Bonaparte so much that it refused to hold any
correspondence with them. England, though at peace with
France, sent Mr. Moore as agent to negotiate with the
malcontents, but he arrived too late. On the 28th of
October, the diet of the insurgents, ,held at Schwitz,
thought proper to dissolve itself when the French govern-
ment took care to have a force \n and "near Switzerland,
sufficient to overawe any new movements ; and finally the
deputies from the cantons were ordered to proceed to
Paris, to decide upon the points at issue.

Aloys Heding, . and General Auf-der-Maur, together
with the brother of the former, and several others of the
Swiss patriots, were led prisoners to Zurich, and con-
veyed before General Serras, who ordered them to the
castle of Challon, on the banks of the Lake of Geneva,
till further orders. The senate of Berne, as might be
expected, declared, that Bonaparte would give them a
constitution which should ensure tranquillity, and that they
would gratefully accept the same.

The decisive settlement of the new constitution >of
Switzerland was reserved till the. deputies from the can-
tons should have arrived at Paris. In consequence . of this
determination, on the 10th of December, they assembled
at the office of the minister for foreign affairs, and Bar-
thelemy, one of the senators of the commission, with

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 433

Ron?, and Roederer, its secretaries, there communica-
ted a letter from the First Consul, dated St.' Cloud,
December 10, addressed to the deputies, from the
eighteen cantons of Helvetia, the substance of which
will be found in the subjoined note.*

If we may judge by the time occupied before the new
constitution was finally adjusted, it would appear that it
did not pass without much consideration, if not objection,
on the part of the deputies ; since it was not till the 23d
of the February following tjiat the supplement of the
Moniteur was nearly filled with what was termed, by

* " The present critical situation of Helvetia demands from all
parties an entire sacrifice of their factions an<) selfish passions. The
First Consul will fulfil his engagements, and restore tranquillity to
Switzerland. . He expects the deputies to aid his intentions. Switzer-
land is a country distinguished from all others, by the peculiarity of
its local circumstances. It is formed for a federative republic by
the very hand of nature. Circumstances had there established
sovereign states, among others that were dependent ; other events
have introduced a general equality of right. There are in Switzer-
land both pure democracies and oligarchies, or governments en-
grossed by particular families ; both cannot continue to subsist toge-
ther. The three principles, on which alone tranquillity can be re-es-
tabUshed, are these : a general equality of rights among all the eigh-
teen cantons; an entire renunciation of each aristocratic family rights
and a federative conformation in respect to each particular canton.
After the cantons shall have been constituted, the course of the central
government will be easy. The revenue, the military force, the poli-
tical administration, will vary* in the different cantons. Switzerland
has not, hitherto, had a standing army, nor ambassadors, inordinary,
to foreign powers. Commerce and a government of small expendi-
ture are the two points of chief importance to the country. The
FVench and Italian republics cannot agree to the institution of a go- '
vernment in Switzerland that might become, directly or indirectly,
hostile to their interests. The insurgents have acted under the in-
fluence of the enemies of France ; they have insulted the French na-
tion by declaring themselves against an equality of rights. No party,
and least of all that of the insurgents, shall triumph in Switzerland.
It js the duty of the French government to taXe care that there shall
not be formed, on that open frontier of the French republic, a sys-
tem hostile to its interests. A government must be established in
Helvetia such as in its spirit mav be always friendly to France. The
First Consul therefore will taVf into due consideration whatever plans
stiall be communicated to b^'ii from the deputies, whether individually
of correctively."

vol, 11.— 28. * 3 k

Digitized by

Google

434 THE LIFE OF

the French government, the act of mediation on the part
of the First Consul of the French Republic between the
factions which divide Switzerland.*

* The late Dr. Jones, of Bristol, paid a visit to Paris, during the
short and hollow peace of Amiens, in 1802, and he was highly grati-
fied with his journey, having enjoyed the company of some eminent
men of the first literary and political consequence. He described the
astonishing alterations and improvements in that celebrated capital and
its environs, during the few years which Bonaparte had been at the
head of the government. Among the many interesting facts which
he related, was that respecting the nine deputies from Switzerland
who had been waiting in Paris six weeks, for an interview with the
First Consul, respecting the arrangement of the political situation of
the Swiss Cantons.

At last the long expected day arrived, when, being desired to attend,
they were ushered into a neat spacious room, without any ornaments or
furniture,, only a long table, covered with green baize, on which were
paper, pens, and ink.

Punctual to the hour appointed, the First Consul then entered,
followed by two of his ministers, who, after the necessary salutation,
sat down at the head of the table, his ministers one on each side of
him ; after which the deputies took their seats. lie then spread out
before him a large plan, or chart, which he had brought in his hand,
as necessary to the subject of their deliberations. He requested that,
when they heard it read, they would state freely what objections oc-
curred to them as to any part of it, and point out in what particular
it might be improved, which, from their local knowledge of the
country and its inhabitants, they were so capable of doing.

They availed themselves of the liberty given, and suggested
several alterations which they deemed advantageous both to France
and Switzerland. But from the prompt, clear, and unanswerable rea-
sons which Napoleon gave in reply to all their objections, he
completely convinced them, to their entire satisfaction ; so that, after
ten hours animated discussion, they candidly acknowledged that he
was better acquainted with the local circumstances and probable con-
sequences to the cantons than they were themselves. His ministers
did not speak one word during the whole discussion.

Dr. Jones lodged in the same hotel with several of the Swiss de-
puties: they dined and drank their wine together, and had many
pleasant and learned discussions on philosophical, literary, and politi-
cal subjects ; and, on the whole, he frankly owned that he found them
to be men of good education and superior intelligence. It may very
reasonably be supposed that the States of Switzerland would choose
men of that character to send on so important a mission, and to meet
that peerless statesman, Napoleon Bonaparte.

After their business was finally settled, the deputies declared it
was their most decided opinion, that " Bonaparte was the greatest
and most extraordinary man they had ever read of, or been- ac-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 435

The introduction was in every respect plausible, and,
in most of the particulars specified, strictly true. The
interference of France was particularly imputed to the
solicitation of the Democratic Cantons; and, it is added,
that the general wish of the Helvetic people rendered it
necessary for Bonaparte to interpose his mediation be-
tween the parties that divided that country.

It is worthy remark that the aristocratic cantons only
manifested a dislike to the new constitution. However,
their attempts to excite an insurrection among the
Helvetic troops at Berne, being feeble and unsupported,
ended in their own discomfiture. Even some English
journalists, prostituted to the war-faction at that period,
owned " that nothing but the presence of the French
troops could prevent the aristocratic cantons for breaking
out into acts of direct hostility against the constituted
authorities in Switzerland."

The final result of the introduction of the new order
of things was, that the Helvetic troops passed into the
service of France, when the Landamman issued a pro-
clamation, informing them, that they were received into
the armies of the First Consul, whose paternal care
would teach them to forget all they had suffered. An
address of thanks to Bonaparte was also voted by the
diet, on the specific ground, " That be had restored to
them their ancient constitution, the only one adapted to
the wants or consistent with the wishes of the people ;"
which, as it met with no opposition, but from the in-
fluence of the oligarchy in the aristocratic cantons, was

quainted with in modem timet during all their communicatipns with
the great men of Europe"

M . Benjamin Constant and M. Sismondi, who both knew Napoleon
well, have frequently said, that the quickness of hit conception, the
depth of his remarks, the facility and propriety of his eloquence ;
but, above all, the candour of his replies and his patient silence
were more remarkable and attractive than they had ever met with in
any other individual.

Digitized by

Google

436 THE LIFE OF

then acknowledged as a most essential benefit to Switzer-
land in particular, and to Europe at large.

The negotiations and a refusal on the part of England
to give up Malta had now continued nearly a twelve-
month; when, in February, 1803, the First Consul de-
clared to Lord Whitwortb, that he would rather see the
English in possession of the Faubopxg St. AntoLse, qjt
Paris, than they shop Id remain in that of Malta ; ; and
that its detention would be considered as a recommence^
ment of hostilities. In . reply to this demand, England
assured the French government, that the difficulties re-
specting the guarantee [had rendered some fresh arrange-
ments necessary relative to that island; a communication
for which purpose had been prepared, and should have
been made, had it not been for the publication of a ret-
port by Colonel Sebastiani, in which he .informed the
First Consul that six thousand French were sufficient I9
take possession of Egypt, which affirmation imposed the
.necessity of demanding some satisfactory explanation op
that head, &c. It would be unnecessary to go into ail
,the detail of the negotiations respecting that island, aiidL
.the proposal of the English to keep it only daring tea
years— the taking of the island of kampedosa in it*
room ; and the substantial security depiaqded. by England
" for objects w)iich might be materially endangered .by
the removal of the troops from thence." Such were th?
conditions expressed by the English government at th?
latter end of February; however, his. Britannic Majesty's
declaration, communicated to Parliament, on the 8th of
March, dissolved every doubt on the subject, and at
once put an end to all further discussions and delusions.
The great length of the document in question -prevents
ns from inserting it ; and as the contents only refer to
the litigated point of Malta, and are wholly unconnected
with the life of Bonaparte, we conceive that a sufficient
apology ; added to which, this royal message is extant
in all the parliamentary proceedings that were published.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4$J

The King's message was no sooner made known in
France than acted npcfn ; and both nations, it was observed,
began to develope their respective means of attack and
annoyance. The bland tf Malta, the immediate cans?
of the war, was so strong, from its fortifications, and st>
well garrisoned, that France could not entertain the
slightest hope of its oonquefct by force ; consequently,'the
Jine of hostilities which eac& nation, intended to pursue
was foreseen from their relative positions. Great Britain,
mistress of the seas, naturally directed her principal
attack against the colonies and maritime possessions of
France, while the latter, equally powerful by land, was
able to obstruct and attack the commerce of Great
-Britain in Italy, Germany, and every country where her
armies conld penetrate.

The English government lost no time in sending a
strong reinforcement of troops to the West Indies. The
defensive force of the conn try was also, called forth in tht,
supplementary and regular militia, and J>y accepting the
services of a considerable number of volunteer corps;
indeed, the exertions of government then appeared 8fr
entirely confined to measures of defence, that even the
enemy observed, " It was strange that Great Britain
should court a war, inerely to show that she could* put
herself into a strong posture of resistance." However;
that it was not a mere defensive system which this count
try followed was soon evinced, by the red action ;*f the
Islands of St. Lueia and Tobago, and preparations. for
attacking the other possessions of. France, in different
quarters. France, on the other hand, .was not inactive;
a few days after the date of the. King's message, Admiral
Ziinois sailed fropa Brest for the East. Indies, with *
strong squadron, and a considerable land-force, to gar?
risen the Cape* and strengthen the French positions. Ill
^Europe, as might be expected, the Republican armies
were immediately set in motion. That of Italy, strongly
reinforced, pushed on ■ to Tarentum, and threatened to

Digitized by

Google

438 THE LIFE OF

occupy all the strong' posts in the kingdom of Naples,
bordering on the Adriatic. The French generals, charged
with the execution of these orders, expressing in their
proclamations, that it was necessary, while England re-
tained Malta, that France should occupy those important
positions.

On the side of Germany, the French were not less ac-
tive: M.Talleyrand had already stated, in plain terms,
to Lord Whitworth, that, in the event of hostilities, it
was natural that a considerable army should be formed in
Holland ; and though his Majesty's positive declaration
of war was not laid before Parliament till the 18th of
May, on the 25th, General Mortier, from his head-quar-
ters at Coerverden, summoned the Hanoverian Electo-
rate to surrender to his army. Yet, even from this step,
it was evident that Bonaparte wished to leave an opening
for peace ; as General Mortier formally professed, that
be sought to occupy that country merely as a pledge for
the restoration of Malta, agreeably to the conditions of
the Treaty of Amiens ; further asserting, that it was only
for the purpose of compelling the King of England to
maintain the peace in question, that he had ordered his
troops to occupy that portion of Germany in which the
reigning family of England was particularly interested.
The Duke of Cambridge was, in consequence, sent over
to Hanover as Commander-in-Chief, and although pro-
clamations were published in his name, and that of the
Hanoverian government, calling upon the. inhabitants to
defend their country, they seemed rather to listen to
General Mortier, who informed them, in his address,
that " be had heard of proclamations, dictated by the
blindest fury, for the purpose of drawing them into a
contest to which they ought to be strangers; and ex-
horted them to abstain from an aggression equally absurd
and useless, of which they alone would be the victims."
To this advice the Hanoverian citizens wisely listened,
and refused to oppose the French, or rise in a mass, as

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 430

the ministers of England had desired. The military, in-
deed, made some opposition, but it proved triBing, and,
in the end, they were obliged to capitulate and enter into
an engagement not to serve against France, or her allies,
until regularly exchanged.

On the first news of the King of England's message,
all eyes were turned to the Cabinet of the Tuileries.
Its most trifling motions received a character of im-
portance ; its most unpremeditated words were eagerly
caught up. Every one impatiently expected the assembly
for the presentation of foreigners, which Madame Bona-
parte held once a month. Every one was prepared to draw
some inferences from thence. It was as splendid as usual.
The First Consul made his appearance, and said, on his
entrance, to the English Ambassador, who was standing
beside M. Markoff, " <*fVe have been at war for twelve
years. The King of England says, ' that France is mak-
ing immense naval preparations.' He has been led into
an error. In the French ports there are no preparations
of any magnitude. The whole fleet is gone to St. Do-
mingo and the colonies. With regard to the ports of
Holland, to which Ijis Majesty's message likewise alludes,
there are only the preparations for the expedition under
General Victor, and all Europe knows its destination is
for Louisiana. The king says farther, that, between the
cabinets of Paris and London, differences continue. I
know of none. It is true, that England ought to have
evacuated Malta, yet Malta is not evacuated ; and, as
his Britannic Majesty has bound himself by the most .
solemn treaty ever entered into, it is impossible to doubt
the speedy evacuation of that island ; and," added the
First Consul, "those who would attempt to frighten
the French people, should learn that it is possible to kill,
but not to intimidate them."

During the course of the evening, when Bonaparte
happened to be near M. Markoff, he remarked to him,
' That the British ministry wished to keep Malta for five
years ; that such a proposal was insulting, and no treaties

Digitized by

Google

440 THE LIFE OF

ought to be entered into, which it was not resolved should
be observed/ At the conclusion of the assembly, when
the English Ambassador was about to retire, the First
Consul said to him, 4 Madame the Duchess of Dorset
has spent the unpleasant part of the year at Paris ; it »
my sincere wish that she may also pass the agreeable sea-
son here': but, if it should bappen that we must go to
war, the responsibility is exclusively with those who deny
the validity of their own contracts, since they refuse to
observe treaties which they have signed."
- It was through the medium of the Moniteur, that we
first learned, for a certainty, that Alexandria had been
evacuated by the English, on the 17th of March ; and
that EM. Bey had embarked as ambassador extraordinary
from the rebel beys, iii Egypt/ to the Court of London.
About the same time we also ascertained, from Paris, that
the First Consul, driving a phaeton, with four horses ht
hand, was thrown'from his seat in the park of St Cloud;
the shock was violent, bdt he alighted on the grass, ami
experienced no injury except a slight bruise in the band.
In. the meantime the actual commencement of war created
no particular anxiety among the Parisians, as their minds
bad been in a great measure prepared for that eftrent, by
a variety of circumstances, particularly the conversation
between Lord Wbitworth and the First Consul, of which -
it seems the most accurate, account was given in the an-
nexed interesting letter from Lord Whltwef th to Lord
Hawkesbury.*

Paris, Feb. 21st, 1803.
*«MyLo*n,
" My last despatch, wherein I gave your Lordship an account of
my conference with M. Talleyrand, was scarcely gone, when I
received a note from him, informing me that the First Consul wished
to converse with me, and desired I would repair to him at the
Tuileries, at nine o'clock. He received me, in his Cabinet, with,
tolerable cordiality ; and, after talking on different subjects for a few
nynutes, desired I would be seated, as he himself did, on the other
side of the table, and then began. He told me that he felt it necea- .
sary, after what had passed, between me and M. Talleyrand, that he
*Uottld> in the mosjt clear and decisive manner, make known his. sent i» .•

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 441

, If the return of Lord WhitWorth from Paris had aa>
tarally extinguished all hopes of peaee between- the two

inents, in Order to their being communicated to his Majesty ; and he
conceived this would be more effectually done by himself, than
through any other medium whatsoever. He said, that it was a matter
of infinite disappointment to him, that the treaty of Amiens, instead
of being followed' by conciliation and friendship, the natural effects
of peace, had been productive only of continual and increasing jea-
lousy and mistrust ; and that this mistrust was now avowed in such a
manner as must bring the point to an issue.

" He then enumerated the several provocations which he pretended
to have received from England. He principally dwelt upon our not
evacuating Malta and Alexandria, as we were bound to do by the
treaty. & this, he said, that no consideration on earth should make
him acquiesce ; and, of the two, he had rather see us in possession of
the Faubourg St. Antoine than of Malta. He then adverted to the
abuse thrown out against him in the Euglish public prints ; but this,
he said, he did not so much regard, as that which appeared in the
French papers published in London. This he considered aa much
more mischievous, since it was meant to excite that country against
himself, and his government. He complained of the protection given
to Georges, and others of his description, who, instead of being sent
to Canada, as had been repeatedly promised, were permitted to remain
in England, handsomely pensioned, and constantly committing all
sorts of crimes on the coasts of France, as well as in the interior. In
confirmation of this, he told me that two men had, within a few days,
been apprehended in Normandy, and were now on their way to Paris,
who were hired assassins, and employed by the Bishop of Arras, the
Baron de Rolle, Georges, and Dutheil, as would be fully proved in a
court of justice, and made known to the world.

" He acknowledged that the irritation he felt against England
increased daily, because, every wind (I make use as much as F can
of bis own ideas and expressions) which blew from England/ brought
with it nothing but enmity and hatred against him.

" He then recurred to Egypt, and told me, that if he bad felt the
smallest inclination to take possession of that country by force, he
might have done so a month ago, by sending twenty-five thousand men
to Aboukir, who would have possessed themselves of the whole
country, in defiance of the four thousand British in Alexandria.
That instead of that garrison, being a means of protecting Egypt, it
was only furnishing him with a pretence for invading it. inis he
should not do, whatever might be his desire to possess it as a colony,
because he did not think it worth the risk of a war, in which he might,
perhaps, be considered as the aggressor, and by which he should lose
more than he could gain, since, sooner or later, Egypt would belong
to France, either by the dismemberment of the Turkish empire, or*
some arrangement with the Porte.

M As a proof of his desire to maintain peace, he wished to know'
what he had to gain by going to war with England. A descent was
the only means of offence he had, and that he was determined to

vol. 11.— 28. 3 l

Digitized by

Google

442 ™ U¥E 0F

countries, another circumstance, which followed soon after,
raised the spirit of hostility beyond all former bounds ;

attempt, by putting himself at the head of the expedition. But how
could it be supposed, that, after having gained the pinnacle on which
he stood, he should risk bis life ana reputation in such a hazardous
attempt, unless forced to it by necessity, when the chances were that
he ana the greatest part of the expedition would perish in the ocean.
He talked much on this subject, but never affected to diminish the
danger. He acknowledged that there were a hundred chances to
one against him, but still he was determined to attempt it, if war
should be the consequence of the present discussion ; while such
was the disposition of the troops, that army after army would be found
ready to embark in the enterprise.

"He next expatiated largely on the natural forces oi the two
countries. France, with an army of four hundred and eighty thou-
sand men ; for to that amount he said it was to be immediately com-
pleted, all ready for the most desperate enterprizes ; and England,
with a fleet that made her mistress of the seas, and which he did not
think he should be able to cope with in less than ten years. Two such
countries, by a proper understanding, could govern the world, but
by their strifes might /overturn it. He said, that, if he had not felt
the enmity of the British Government, on every occasion, since the
treaty of Amiens, he would have left nothing undone to prove his
desire for conciliation ; participation in indemnities, as well as regarded
continental influence, treaties of commerce ; in short, any thing that
might have afforded satisfaction, and testified his friendship. Nothing,
however, had been able to conquer the hatred of the British Govern-
ment, and, therefore, it was now come to the point whether we should
have peace or war. To preserve peace, the treaty of Amiens must
be fulfilled ; the abuse in the public prints, if not totally suppressed,
at least kept within bounds, and confined to the English papers ; and
the protection so openly afforded to his bitterest enemies, (alluding to
Georges, and persons of that description,) must be withdrawn. If
war, it was necessary only to say so,' and to refuse to fulfil the treaty.
He then made the tour of Europe, to prove to me that, in its present
State, there was no power with which we could coalesce, for the pur-
pose of making war against France, consequently it was our interest
to gain time, and if we had any latent point to answer, renew the war
when circumstances were more favourable. He said it was not doing
him justice to suppose that he conceived himself above the opinion
of his country or of Europe* He would not risk uniting Europe
against him, by any violent act of aggression, neither was he so
powerful in France, as to persuade the nation to go to war, unless
on good grounds. He said that he had not chastised the Algerines,
from his unwillingness to excite the jealousy of other powers, but he
hoped that England, Russia, and France would one day feel that it was
their interest to destroy such a nest of thieves, and force them to live
rather by cultivating their land, than by plunder.

u In the little I said to him, (for he gave me, in the courseottwo
hours, but very few opportunity of saying a word,) I confined myself

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 443

this was produced by an order from the French Govern-
ment to seize all the English in France, and was thus
announced in the Moniteur :

strictly to the tenor of your Lordship's instructions. I urged them
in the same manner as I bad before done to M. Talleyrand, and
dwelt as strongly as I could on the effect which the publication of
Sebastiani's report had created in England, where the views of France
towards Egypt must always command the utmost vigilance and jea-
lousy. He maintained that what ought to convince us of his desire
for peace was, on the one hand, the little he had to gain by a re-
newal of war, and, on the other, the facility with which he might
have taken possession of Egypt, with the very ships and troops which
were then going from the Mediterranean to St. Domingo, and that
with the approbation of all Europe, and more particularly of the
Turks, who nad repeatedly invited nim to join them, for the purpose
of forcing us to evacuate their territory. '

. " I do not pretend to follow the arguments of the First Consul in
detail : this would be impossible, from the vast variety of matter
which he took occasion to introduce. His purpose was evidently to
convince me, that on Malta must depend peace or war, and, at the
same time* to impress upon my mind a strong idea of the means he
possessed of annoying us at home and abroad.

" With regard to the mistrust and jealousy which, he said, con-
stantly prevailed since the conclusion of the Treaty of Amiens, I ob-
served, that, after a war of such long duration, so full of rancour, and
carried on in a manner of which history had no parallel, it was but
natural that a considerable degree of agitation should prevail : but
that, like the swell after a storm, it would gradually subside, if not kept
up by the policy of either party ; that I would not pretend to pro-
nounce who had been the aggressor in the paper-war that excited his
complaints, and which was still kept up, though with this difference,
that in England it was a matter independent of government, while in
France it constituted its very act and deed. To this I added, that
it must be admitted that we had such motives of mistrust against
France, as could not be alleged against us $ and I was going to in-
stance the accession of territory and influence gained by France since
the Treaty, when he interrupted me, by saying, I suppose you mean
Piedmont and Switzerland ; " ce sont des bagatelles ?' and it must
have been foreseen, whilst the negotiation was pending; " Vov»
n'avcz pas le droit tfenparkr a cctte heure." I. then alleged, as
a cause of mistrust and jealousy, the impossibility of obtaining jus-
tice, or redress, for any of his Majesty's subjects,— He asked me in
what respect, I told him, that, since the signing of the Treaty, not
one^ British claimant had been satisfied, although every Frenchman,
so situated, was paid within one month, after the period in question ;
and that "since I had been in Paris, and I could say as much for
my predecessors, not one satisfactory answer had been obtained, to
the innumerable representations which we had been under the ne-
cessity of making in favour of British subjects and property, de-

Digitized by

Google

444 ™ LIF£ OF

M*The government of the Republic having heard read;
by the Minuter of Marine and Colonies, a despatch from.

tamed in the several ports of France, and elswhere, without even
the shadow of justice : such an order of things, I said, was not cal-
culated to inspire confidence, but, on the contrary, must create mis*
trust This, he said, was* attributable to the natural difficulties at*
tending such suits, when both parties thought themselves in the right ;
but he denied that delays could proceed from any disinclination to
do what was lust and equitable. With regard to the pensions which
were granted to French or Swiss individuals, I observed that they
were given as a reward for past services during the war, and most
certainly not for present ones ; and still less for such as had been in-
sinuated of a nature repugnant to the feelings of every individual
in England, and to the universally acknowledged loyalty and honour
of the British Government. That as for any participation of indem-
nities, or other accessions which his Majesty might have obtained, I
could take upon myself to assure him, that his Majesty's ambition led
htm rather to preserve. than to acquire. And that, with regard to the
most propitious moment for renewing hostilities, his Majesty, whose
sincere desire it was to continue the blessings of peace to his subjects,
would always consider such a measure as the greatest calamity : but
that, if his Majesty was so desirous of peace, it must not be imputed
to the difficulty of obtaining allies ; and the less so, as those means
which it might be necessary to afford such allies, perhaps for inade-
quate services, would all be concentrated in England, and give a pro-
portionate increase or energy to our own exertion.

" At this period of the conversation, the Consul rose from his chair,
and told me that he should give orders to General Andreossy to enter
on the discussion of tins business with your Lordship ; but he wished
that I should, at the same time, be made acquainted with his mo-
tives, and convinced of *his sincerity, rather from himself than from
his ministers. He then, after a conversation of two hours, during the
greater part of which he talked incessantly, conversed for a few mo*
ments on indifferent topics, in apparent good humour, and then re-
tired.

" Such was, as nearly as I can recollect, the purport of this con-
ference.

" It must, however, be observed, that he did not, as M. Talley-
rand had done, affect to attribute Colonel Sebastiani's mission to com-
mercial motives only, but as one rendered necessary, in a military
point of view, owing to the infraction by us of the Treaty of Amiens.
" 1 have the honour to be, &c.

" Whitworth.

"P. S. The above conversation took place on Friday last, and this
morning I saw M. Talleyrand. He had been with the First Con-
sul, after I left him, and assured me that he felt very well satisfied
with the frankness with which I had made my observations on what
fell from him. I told him, that, without entering into any further
detail, all I had said to the First Consul amounted to an assu-
rance of what I trusted there could be no doubt, the readiness of

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 445

th6 maritime prefect at Brest, announcing thai two Eng-
lish frigates had taken two French merchants' vessels in.
the bay of Abdierne, without any previous declaration
of War, and in manifest violation of the law of nations : '

I. It is prescribed to all commanders of squadrons or
naval divisions of the Republic, captains of its ships, and
other vessel* of war, to chase those of the King of Eng-
land, as well as those vessels belonging to his subjects,
and to attack, capture, and conduct them into the ports of
the Republic.

IL Commissions will be delivered, in course, to those
French privateers for which they are demanded.

III. AU the English from the age 18 to flO, or hold-
ing any commission from Ms Britannic Majesty, who are at
present in France, shall immediately be constituted pri-
soners of war, to answer for those citizens of the Repub-
lic who may have been arrested and made prisoners by the
vessels or subjects of his Britannic Majesty, previous to
any declaration of hostilities.

(Signed) Bonaparte.

It is almost unnecessary to remark, that Holland was
soon obliged to follow the foosteps of France. In the
sitting of the Dutch Legislative Body at the Hague, on
the 21st of June, a message was sent from the government,
announcing, that the Republic, as an ally of France, was
obliged to take part in the war ; and that it only remained.

his Majesty's ministers to remove all subjects of discussion, where
that could be done without violating the laws of the country, and
fuIBUing strictly the engagements which they had contracted, inas-
much as they could be reconciled with the safety of the state.— As.
this applied to Malta and Egypt he gave me to understand that a
project was in contemplation, by which the integrity of the Turkish
empire would be. so effectually secured as to do away every cause
of doubt or uneasiness, either with regard to Egypt or any part of
the Turkish dominions. He could not then, he said, explain himself
farther. Under these circumstances, no one can expect that we
should relinquish that assurance which we have in hand till some-
thing equally satisfactory is proposed and adopted.

" Whitworth* .
" The Bight H6n. Lord Hawkesbwry, Sfc. Src %c."

Digitized by LjOOQIC

440 Hfe LIFE OF

for them io put their trust in divine protection and the
justice of their cause.

The message announced, " That it had satisfied the
desuoes of the First Consul, and placed the Batarian army
under the orders of the Freneh commander." Soon after
thus* it appeared, that all the ship-oarpentere and boat*
builders Uirooghont France, from 15 to the age of
60, had been called npon to work for government.

In preparations by land the Fffenoh were by no mean*
deficient: the Paris papers stated, that the Republie
possessed a disposable feroef of 600,000 men ! The re-
mainder of the year 1808 was, in fact, remarkable far.
nothing morq than the final evacuation of SU Domingo,
by the French, and the loss of all their influence in the
West Indies.

. In the meanwhile preparations, very different from
field-day exercises, were carrying on in the different
French ports, particularly at Boulogne, from whence
Admiral Bruix issued the following

PROCLAMATION*

E. BRUIX, Counsellor of State, and Admiral of the
Flotilla destined to carry war to ENGLAND.

Head Quarters at Boulogne.

" The First Consul, when he signified to me your des-
tination, honoured me with the title of your admiral. He
sends me to you, to conduct your exertions in the career
of glory, which his genius has prepared for yon. What
man, at this distinguished proof of the confidence of a
hero, would not be raised above himself? Who could
doubt of his own powers? Brave seamen, the choice of
Bonaparte, renders me worthy to march at your head*
Tour zeal and bravery are pledges that we shall fulfil his
expectations ; already you hear the cry of vengeance—
our towns and districts bring in their voluntary contribu-
tions in multitudes ;. all Frenchmen are ready to maroh

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 447

and punish a government thai is inimical to the peace
of the world, and especially an enemy to the glory and
welfare of our country 4 Too are the first called to this
great enterprise — to you your country first commits the
care of satisfying her just vengeance. Rest assured yea
will fulfil your noble destination. . Recollect that victory
begins in your docks, and in your marine and military
exercises. Those who insolently cruise along our shores,
on viewing your labours, may return, and say to their
government, ' a fearful day is preparing ; the winds and
sea, again favourable to the conqueror of Egypt, may, in
a few hours, waft him to our coasts, and with him the in-
numerable companions of his glory/ To hasten this re-
sult, it is my first duty to establish a severe discipline in
the national flotilla. Subordination will regulate your
efforts, since that can alone add to the activity of your
labours. Sailors, we are on the field of. battle, to lose a
moment would be criminal cowardice. Redouble* there-
fore, your zeal ; multiply your services ; and the nation
which oppresses the seas will be conquered by terror,
before it experiences the fate of arms, and sinks beneath
the blows of our heroes.

« Bruix."

The French Government, which in its chief, as well as
its administrators, had retained the eyes of an Argus,
ever since Bonaparte became First Consul, continuing
watchful and jealous of the conduct of the English, conn
municated to the French nation the discoveries it had
recently made, in an article, entitled, an " Exposition df
the State of the Republic on the 16th of January, 1804.*
Entire tranquillity (said that manifesto) prevailed in the
interior of France, when, at the commencement of the
last year, we entertained hopes of a permanent peace>
and every thing else has continued tranquil, though a
jealous power has rekindled the torch of war ; but this
event has produced among as a more complete union of

% Digitized by GoOglC

448 THE LIFE OP

y

interests and opinion*, and the public spirit has burst
forth with redoubled energy.

The paper in qnestion then expatiated on the improved
state of French finances^-the prosperous situation of its
interior; and reverted to the wishes of the French people,
and their government, for a permanent peace, on the
ground that it was to its prosperity alone that the Re-
public must stand indebted for all its glory. With this
view, it was stated, their arts were encouraged and their
ships were dispersed over the seas ; no armaments were
in their ports, nothing of a threatening nature appeared on
their frontiers : yet such was the moment which the
British Government chose to alarm the nation — to cover
the Channel with ships — to insult commerce by injurious
inspections, and the coasts and ports, as well as those of
its allies, by the presence of menacing forces.

That if, on the 17th, Ventose (March 8} of the 11 tb
year, there existed any extraordinary armament in the
ports of France and Holland ; if a single preparation was
made in them to which the most remote suspicion might
convey a sinister interpretation, then, said the manifesto,
we are the aggressors : the message of the King of
England and his hostile attitude have been rendered
necessary by a legitimate precaution, and the English
people had a right to believe we threatened their inde-
pendence, their religion, and their constitution. But if
the assertions of the message were false ; if they were
contradicted by the opinion of Europe, as well as by the .
conscience of the British Government, then that govern-
ment has deceived the nation, by wantonly involving it in
i?ar, whose terrible effects begin to he felt in England,
and the results of which may be decisive of its future
destiny. The aggressor, however, ought alone to answer
for the calamities which afflict humanity. Malta, the
cause of tjiis contest, was in the power of the English ;
it remained with France to arm for its independence ; it
was France which waited, on silence, the justice of Eng»

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 449

land, and it was England that began the war even prior to
a declaration. This exposition likewise descanted upon
the tranquillity of the continent, its writers little thinking
how soon it was again to be converted into fire and flame !
Peace, it was farther stated, reigned in Italy ; and the
Ottoman Porte, fatigued by intrigues, would gain, by the
interest of France, the support of ancient treaties. It was
then observed that this flattering prospect (of a continental
peace) was fallacious, because the accusation which the
same exposition contained against the English appeared
to be true, vjz. that the British Government had en*
deavoured " to land, on the French coast, those Royalist
monsters whom it had encouraged during the peace, in
order to effect a revolt; bat that such attempts would be
futile, as the people were reconciled, by experience, to
the wisdom and justice of the laws."

This prediction was literally realized, as will appear
from the events to which we shall have cause to allude
in the ensuing chapter.

voii. 11.— 28. 3 m

Digitized by LjOOQIC

460 THE LIFE OF

CHAP. XIII.

Conspiracy of Georges, Pichegru} Moreau, £c— Mystery of
Capt. Wright's Assassination, $c. explained — Animadver-
sions respecting the Conduct of England, in the Moniteur —
Seizure of the Duke d'Enghien — Napoleon's Order re-
specting Suicide — Participation of England in Plots against
the Consular Government — Overtures from Louis the
XVIII. to the Consul — Bonaparte proclaimed Emperor—
Address presented' fcy the Senate — domination of French
Marshals— Letters sent to the French Bishops — Cause of
the Duke cTEnghien espoused by different Potters— Seizure
of Sir George Rumbeid— Arrival of ike Pope at ParU—
The Coronation — David** Picture of that Ceremony de-
scribed— Retrospect of Public Affairs in France— Napo-
leon's Letter to the King of England— Lord Mulgrave's
Answer — French Comments on that Correspondence — The
French Government still anxious for Peace— Bon ap arte
crowned King of Italy — Benefits conferred on Bologna by
Napoleon — Genoese Territories attached to France —
Anecdote of Napoleon, when in the Vicinity of Lyons —
Description of the Grand Fete given to the Emperor, at
Boulogne — Bonaparte suddenly sets off for Paris, inconse-
v quence of the threatening Aspect of Affairs, as regarded
Austria and Russia.

We terminated the foregoing chapter by saying, that the
British Cabinet had identified itself with the royalist
party, in opposition to the Consular Government of
France, which disgraceful fact was folly developed by an
announcement in the Paris papers, of the 12th Febru-
ary, stating : " A conspiracy of a very complicated
nature has been discovered. It is said, that 150 men

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 454

were to assemble in the uniform of guards, to seise Bona-
parte, at Malmaison, where he was hunting, or wherever
eke he might be found, and carry him off. The uniforms
were discovered, in consequence of the information of
one of the conspirators, who is in confinement in the
Temple. The chief of the Chouans, Georges Cadoudal,
only escaped by a quarter of an hour. The officers of
the police then repaired to the mistress of an inn. Hav-
ing ascertained that the sign of the conspirators was an
English piece of. gold, on drawing off her glove, they found
therein a similar piece of English money. They then
opened her drawers, and discovered a letter, directing
her, on a day specified, to carry to a certain house in the)
fins de Burgoing au Marrais, twenty bottles of wine, and
to ring so many times at the door. The police officers
took the bottles, and repaired to the house, where they
I*ng, and found a number of persons, who defended
themselves in a very desperate manner. Among those
arrested, were Mairn, an intimate of Georges, the Ven-
dean royalist: one Victor, who had been in a former
plot, and the cook of Georges. General Moreau has
been arrested, and the grand plot solemnly announced by
the government to the legislative assembly." It wqs then
stated, that General Moreau had held repeated confe-
rences with Georges, Pichegru, La Jollais ; and that the
whole of the conspiracy was attributed to the English
Government.

On the 17lh of February, Begnier, the grand judge-,
made a report, in which he asserted, that a band of as-
sassins, headed by Georges, and in the pay of England,
was still dispersed in La Vendee, Morbihan, and the
Cotes du Nord. It was also stated, that an accomplice
had been recently seized at Calais, upon his second return
from England, and that the papers found on him, iden-
tified the criminality of General Moreau. La Jollais was
the courier who transmitted the sentiments of Moreau to
General Pichegru, when the latter was in London ; and,

Digitized by

Google

452 THE LIFE OF

thai at a spot between Dieppe and Treport, the brigands'
of England were conveyed over in English ships, by
Captain Wright,* landed without being observed, when

• The mystery ef Captain Wright's death and that qfPichegr*.
cleared up.

The following curious particulars were communicated to Dr. War-
den, after an absence of six weeks from Longwood : —

" On entering the room I observed the back-of the sofa turned
towards me ; and, on advancing, I saw Napoleon lying at full length
on it, and before him was a table covered with books ; among them'
some volumes on the French revolution. The heat of the day had
occasioned him to dismantle himself of coat and waistcoat. The mo-
ment his eye met mine, he started up and exclaimed in English, in a
tone of good humoured vivacity, • Ah, Warden, how do you do}*
I bowed. in return ; when he stretched out his hand, saying, ' I have
got a fever.' I applied my hand to his wrist, and observing both from
tne regularity of the pulsation, and the jocular expression of hit
countenance, that he was exercising a little of his pleasantry ; I con-

fratulated him on the preservation of his health, and complimented
im, at the same time, on the progress he appeared to have made in
the English language. * I certainly enjoy/ said he, ' a very good
state of health, which I attribute to a rigorous observance of regimen.
My appetite is such, that I feel as if J could eat at any time of the
day ; but I am regular at my meals, and always leave off eating with
an appetite ; besides, I never drink strong wines. With respect to the
English language,' he continued, ' I have been very diligent.-*-! now
read your newspapers with ease, and I must own that they afford me
no inconsiderable amusement.— They are occasionally inconsistent,
and, sometimes, abusive. In one paper, I am called a liar, in ano-
ther a tyrant, in the third a monster, and in one of them, which I
really did not expect, I am described as a coward ; but it turned out,
after all, that the writer did not accuse me of avoiding danger in the
field of battle, or flying from an enemy, or fearing to look at the
menaces of fate and fortune ; he did not charge me with wanting pre-
sence of mind in the hurry of battle, and in the suspense of conflicting
armies. — No such thing ; I wanted courage, it seems, because I did
not coolly take a dose of poison* or throw myself .into the sea, or blow
out my brains— I have, at least, too much courage for that. — Your
papers are-influenced by party principles ; what one praises the other
will abuse, and so vice versa. They who live in the metropolis,
where they are published, can judge of passing events and transactions
for themselves ; but persons living at a distance from the capital, and
particularly foreigners, must be at a loss to determine upon the real
state of tilings, and the characters of public men, from the perusal of
your journals.'

" My unreserved language appeared to meet Napoleon's approba-
tion ; and he asked me, to my great surprise, if I remembered the
history of Captain Wright?— I answered, 'perfectly well ; and it wa>

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4$$

they found men to receive and conduct them, during the
night, to fixed stations on the road to Parts.

After the judge's report had been read in the Tribunate,
the brother of General Moreaa made an energetic and

a prevailing opinion in England, that you ordered him to be mur-
dered in the Temple/ With the utmost rapidity of speech, he replied,

* For what object t Of all men he was the person whom I should
have most desired to live — whence could I have procured so valuable
an evidence as he would have proved, on the trial of the conspira-
tors, in and about Paris. The heads of it he himself had landed
on the French coast. Listen,' continued Napoleon, ' and you shall
hear. The English brig of war, commanded by Captain Wright,,
was employed by your government in landing traitors and spies in
the west of France. Seventy of the number had actually reached
Paris ; and so mysterious were their proceedings, so veiled in im-
penetrable concealment, that although General Rial, of the police,
gave me this information, the name and place of their resort could
not be discovered* I received daily assurances that my life would
be attempted, and though I did not give entire credit to them, I took
every precaution for my preservation — The brig was afterwards
taken near L'Orient, with Captain Wright, its commander,, who was
carried before the prefect of the department of Morbeau, at Vannes:
General Julian, then prefect, had accompanied me in the expedition
to Egypt, and recognised Captain Wright on the first view of him.—
Intelligence of thtSy circumstance was instantly transmitted to Paris ;
and instructions were expeditiously returned to consign them to trial.
The law of France would have subjected Wright to the punishment
of death for crimes of minor consideration* My grand object was to
procure the principals, and I considered the English Captain's evi-
dence of the utmost consequence towards completing my object."—
Napoleon again and again most solemnly asserted, that Captain
Wright died in the Temple by his own hand, at described in the
Moniteur, and at a much earlier period than has been generally
believed.

" In tjie same conversation, Napoleon said, ' Your country also .
accuse me of the death of Pichegru. I replied, * Xt is most certainly
and universally believed throughout the whole British empire, that he
was stranded in prison by your orders.' He rapidly answered,

* JVhat idle disingenuous folly ! a fine proof how prejudice can
destroy the boasted, reasoning faculties of Englishmen! 0ny, 1 ask
you, should that life be taken away in secret, which the law consigned
to the hands of the public executioner t The matter would have
been different with respect to Moreau. Had he died in a dungeon,
there might have been grounds to justify the suspicion that he had not
been guilty of suicide. He was a very popular character, as well as
much beloved by the army: and I should never have lost the odium,
however guiltless I might have been, if the justice of his death, sup-
posing his life to have been forfeited *y the laws, bad not been made
apparent by the most public execution.' "

Digitized by

Google

454 THE LIFE 0F

indignant speech, declaring the whole an infamous calum-
ny, and demanding that his brother might be instantly
brooght to trial* The Senate, however, impaling the
speech more to natural affection than sound judgement,
transmitted an address of congratulation to Bonaparte,
to which, in the conclusion of his reply, be expressed
himself as follows :

" I have long since renounced the hope of enjoying
the pleasures of private life : all my days are occupied
in fulfilling the duties which my fate, and the will of the
French people, have imposed on me. Heaven will watch
over France, and defeat the plots of the wicked. The
citizens may be without alarm ; my life will last as long
as will be useful to the nation : but I wish the French
people to understand, Hat existence, without their con-
fidence and affection, would afford me no consolation,
and would, as regards them, have no beneficial object."

General Piohegru, then in Paris, was not arrested till
the 28th of February; when six gens-darmes, and an
agent of the police, entered his apartment so unexpect-
edly, that he had no leisure to use his pistols, or the
dagger which lay on the table : he, however, wrestled
with his opponents for a considerable time, and, on find-
ing be could not prevail, endeavoured, without effect, to
interest their compassion. The government, in the mean
while, having certain intelligence that a great number of
the conspirators were in Paris, caused the barriers to be
so strictly watched, that even Georges could not effect
his escape.f On that occasion it may only be necessary

* The culpability of Moteau was established beyond all doubt, as
will appear from a perusal of the Memoirs of Las Cases, Montbolon,
&c. where the subject of. this famous conspiracy is so frequently re-
ferred to, that the limits of our work will not permit us to insert the
host of evidence to be found in those entertaining volumes.

t Napoleon informed Las Cases, that, eight days prior to the arrest
of Georges, one of the most resolute of tne band of assassins had
delivered into his hand a petition as he attended the parade ; others

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLBON BONAPARTE. 455

to add, that both Georges and Moreau were found guilty.
Tfre first was executed, and died with great fortitude:

introduced themselves to St. Cloud and Malmaison, among his reti-
nue: in short, Georges Cadoudaf himself appears to have been, at
one period, very near his person, and even in the same' apartment with
him.

Bonaparte, independent of his ruling star, attributed his safety to
certain circumstances, peculiar to himself. • One thing, he remarked;
which, doubtless, tended to preserve him, was, his never having
adopted a regular mode of living, or fixed habits in conducting him-
self. Incessant labour confined him very much to his study and the
palace ; he never dined out, seldom went to the theatre, and rarely
appeared, except when and where he was least expected, &c.

The conspiracy, observed Napoleon, was developed by an officer
of the line, who was himself one of the persons concerned in the plot.
" Strange modification of the human mind/1 observed Bonaparte,
" to what point will not the combinations of folly and stupidity tend !
The officer, in question, abhorred me as Consul, though he had adored
me in the character of a general. He was willing that I should be
dispossessed of my consular dignity, and yet was averse to having my
life forfeited; It had been his wish, that my person should be se-
cured, but not injured, arid that I should be expedited to the army,
and continue to combat the enemy for the glory of France. The
other conspirators turned him into ridicule, but when he saw the dag-
gers distributed, and that it was determined to act beyond his inten-
tions, he then presented himself in person before me, and developed
the whole plan of the projected assassination/'

The celebrated Georges Cadoudat, who headed the conspiracy to
assassinate, the Consul, being questioned during the trial respecting
some points whereto he would not deign to reply, told the court to
interrogate the Polignacs: "For they/' exclaimed the fearless
Georges, " wish to live, but death has no terrors for me." This ex*
traordinary man was tried by Thuriot, who was one of those that
signed the death warrant of Louis XVI. ; upon which account this
undaunted conspirator never addressed him but under the nickname
of Tuc Roiy (which signifies King-killer, and is also a pun on
Thuriot.)

During one of these interrogatories, Thuriot demanded of him,
" What he had done with a small miniature of 'the Ring of France,
which he constantly wore attached round his neck ?"— * And you/*
demanded Georges, sternly, * ' what have you done wtth Its original ?"
Struck with this noble reply, the whole audience, which was very
numerous; burst into reiterated shouts 6f applause, when the colour
fled the cheeks of the judge, who, betraying evident Sighs of trouble
and 'confusion, with a faltering voiceordered the accused to be re-
Conducted to his prison, and for that day the interrogatory closed.
' \ The evening before his execution, Caaoudal desired to have a bottle -
of excellent Wine, upon Which the gaoler brought one ; when, having
tasted its contents, and, finding it of inferior quality, hecomplained*-

Digitized by

Google

456 THE LIFE 0F

the latter was pardoned by Bonaparte, on condition of
transporting himself to America ; and that Picbegrn ex-
pired in prison ; or, as it was stated in the Paris papers,
strangled himself by means of a black silk handkerchief,
twisted round his neck and the help of a stick ; he was,
in consequence, buried in a place appropriated for the
remains of those who commit suicide* A number of
Chouans, or Royalists, were executed in the departments,
being found without passports ; a proof but too fatal of
their design in returning to the French territory. This,

stating it was not the wine be desired ; upon which he was answered,
that the liquor would do for a miscreant like him. Without deigning
a reply, Georges corked up the bottle with infinite sang froid, and '
then hurled it at the gaoler's head with such force, and an aim so well
directed, that he fell lifeless at his feet. On the ensuing day he met
his fete upon the scaffold with a tranquil composure, similar to that
which he had adopted in punishing the brutal insolence of his keeper.
In all the different conspiracies which were formed against the life
and government of Napoleon, bis conduct towards the conspirators
was marked by great moderation, and even magnanimity. As in-
stances of this, we have only to select the following :

In the conspiracy of the infernal machine, one of the parties was
found concealed in the house of a ci-devant lady abbess, to whose
protection he had been recommended by Mademoiselle C— , a lady
of good family, and sister to one who had been formerly an archbishop,
This lady, on her examination, acknowledged that she had been in-
fluenced in her recommendation of the man to the lady abbess's pro-
tection by another person, but perused to reveal his name, as she
would not, she said, criminate any one. She was, notwithstanding,
discharged without any punishment, and the lady abbess was only
sentenced Id six months imprisonment.

In the conspiracy of Moreau, Pichegru, Georges, &c. when
Moreau was arrestee!, warrants were also made out against his brother,
the tribune, and Frenieres, his secretary. When this was reported to
the first consul, he inquired whether the names of the two latter were
included in the report of the minister of justice ; and on being an-
swered in the negative, he ordered that the warrants should immedi-
ately be cancelled. " If," said he, " the question at present were
one of those measures in which the safety of the nation was involved,
and a vigorous stroke were necessary, I would not hesitate what part
to take ;— the conspirator should be arrested, brought before a mili-
tary commission, and executed on the spot : but this is not one of
those urgent cases ; it is to be considered only as a criminal prose-
cution according to the established forms> and I desire that all those
forms may be strictly attended to,"

Digitized by

Google

KAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 457

however, in England, as well as the justice executed
upon Georges, and the lenity shown to Moreau, were
imputed to cruelty an<j fear ; and, in this, as in every
thing else, in which Bonaparte was concerned, all
motives, but the real ones, were brought forward to ac-
count for his actions.

This unsuccessful attempt upon the life of Bonaparte,
after he had been acknowledged the lawful sovereign of
France, was considered as too atrocious to be passed
over, by the Moniteur, without repeated animadversions,
and that of March 7, 1804, contained, among others, the
following striking observations :

" Last year, on this day, Europe was at peace ! to-
morrow, a year will have revolved since the King of Eng-
land,- dishonouring a reign of forty-two years by the
grossest falsehoods, called upon his nation to take up arms
— * Because/ said he, in the face of Europe, * the ports of
France and Holland are filled with considerable arma-
ments, which threaten the constitution, the indepen-
dence, and the religion of the English people.' That falla-
cious message renewed the war: the ministers of the
King of England were preparing a new message to cele-
brate this anniversary : they relied upon being able to
announce to Parliament, that they had basely caused the
First Consul to be assassinated. But He, who disposes
of the life of man, and of the destinies of empires, had
otherwise ordained. The French Government is more
consolidated ; a new energy has arisen to animate and
unite the citizens, and to teach conspirators that the
whole people collects itself and rallies round the Chief of
the State. The First Consul,* superior to all events, is

• Id order to display Bonaparte's idea of self destruction at the
period of his consulship, we cannot omit this opportunity of inserting
the following order of the day, which will serve to indicate the prin-
ciples he thought becoming in such arduous, circumstances as those
in which a man's fortitude is put to the test.

vol.ii.— 28. 3n

Digitized by

Google

458 THE LIFE OF

more enabled than ever to fulfil the decree of tbe Fates;
and to avenge the rights of nations, so frequently vio-
lated : while the King of England M

The next subject that occupied publio attention was
tbe seizure of one of the royal family of France; , vis. the
Duke d'Enghien, at Ettenheim, in the German territory
of the Elector of Baden; where a number of emigrants,
and other persons, said to have been in tbe pay of Eng-
land, had been for some time assembled. Notioe of
these transactions having been forwarded to Paris, Bona?*
parte despatched M. de Caojiocouirt, his aid-de-camp,
who, arriving on \be German side of tbe Bhina, marched
towards Offenborg* where he ordered the commatodant to
point out the emigrants in that town, fifteen of whom
were immediately arrested, including the Duke 4'En-
ghien. No resistance was. made by the Elector of Baden,
who immediately sent off a Conner to iis son-in-law,, the
Emperor of Russia. This took place on the 14th- of
March; and, in the night between the 2lst and 22d,
the Duke having arrived at Paris, under an escort o£ 50.
geM'cTarmes, was conveyed to tbe castle of Vinceiraes,.
where he was tried and condemned by a military com*
mission, assembled for that parpose, and met death with

" Extract from the Orderly Book of the Horse Grenadiers of tbe
Consular Guard. '

" Order of the 22d Ftoreal, year 10.
" The grenadier Grobbin has destroyed himself in consequence of
a love affair. He was otherwise a respectable man. This is the
second event of the kind which has happened in the corps within a
month. The First Consul has directed that it shall be inserted in the
order of the day of the guard, that a soldier ought to know how to
subdue sorrowj and the agitation of the passions ; that there is as
much courage in enduring with firmness the pains of the heart, as
in remaining steady under the grape shot of a battery. To abandon
one's self to grief without resistance, to kill one's self in order to escape
from it, is to fly from the field of battle before one is conquered.

(Signed) « Bonaparte, First Consul.

(A true copy) « Bissierbs."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 459

manly resolution, after which he was buried in the moat
of the castle, being then in his 32d year.*

Shortly after this affair, the Moniteur contained a volu-
minous report, of the Grand Judge, on the conspiracy,
consisting of a series of letters and papers, to prove that
Mr. Drake, the British minister at Munich, in Bavaria,
had been employed in the project of destroying the French
Government, by causing the powder-mills in France to
be blown up, and effecting a disorganization in the ar-
mies : the instructions and letters sent to and received
from an agent, whom Mr. Drake sent to Paris, are given
at full length. In one of which the agent is desired to
print an address to the army, instigating the troops not
to suffer Moreau to fall a victim to the jealousy of the
Consul. These papers were immediately sent, by extra-
ordinary couriers, to the foreign courts, as well as to their
ambassadors at Paris, all of whom returned indifferent
answers, the American minister excepted, who entered
into a long detail of the horror with which civilized na-
tions must view the attempts of atrocious agents, and
felicitating Bonaparte on his happy escape from the plots
of those assassins. Sweden being then upon the point of
doming to a rupture with the French, her ambassador
did not return any answer.

According to the Moniteur, the new principle of assas-
sination, adopted by the English ministers, was not con-

* So much has been adduced respecting the death of this prince,
that we deem it requisite to state in exculpation of Napoleon, that
the reader, by referring to the Memoirs of Counts Montholon and
Las Cases ; the Voice from St. Helena, of M. O'Meara ; and particu-
larly the pamphlet published by Savary, Duke of Rovigo, with others
that have appeared since the Emperor's death, will be enabled to
pronounce respecting the complete innocence of the late Ruler of
France, as connected with the topic in question. We should have
been happy to annex the statements alluded to, but they are so nu-
merous and contain such ample documents, that the limits prescribed
in this work, would not admit us to enter more at large upon the
subject.

Digitized by

Google

460 THE LIFE OF

fined to France or Germany ; it had, also, been advo-
cated at Madrid, where our ambassador, Mr, Frere,
being in conversation with the Prince of Peace, is said
to have remarked, " That, under the then circumstance*
of England, assassination and murder were justifiable,
in order to rescue her from the extraordinary situation in
which she was placed !" — To this the Prince of Peace
replied : " But, Sir, if France adopted the same principle,
nations, instead of fleets and armies, would attack each
other by means of assassins/' To this the Moniteur ad-
ded the following note, which was the only notice taken
of the^ execution of the Duke d'Enghien in any Paris
paper.

• " The observation of the Prince of Peace bas just been
verified : and, at the moment when England was employ-
ing the Count d' Artois, as an assassin, one of the indivi-
duals of his bouse was suffering, in expiation of his guilt,
under, the sword of justice ! Infamous ci-devant Bishop
of Arras ! behold the result of thy councils !"*

* Bonaparte informed Count Las Cases, that Louis XVIII. forwarded
to him a letter, which he received through the medium of Lebrun,
who had it from Abbe" de Montesquieu, the secret agent of the
Prince at Paris. This epistle, couched in very guarded terms, and
written with infinite study, contained, as follows : " You delay for
a great length of time the surrendering up to me my throne ; it is
to be feared that you will suffer the favourable moment to transpire.
You cannot ensure the felicity ttf Franoe without me, nor can- 1
accomplish any thing jor France without you. Use despatch, there-
fore, and notify yourself all the posts and dignities which you re-
quire for yourself and friends."

To this application the Consul gave the answer as follows : "/ have
received the communication of your Royal Highness ; for whose
misfortunes, equally with those of your whole family, I have uni-
formly felt the greatest interest. You must not, however, think of
appearing in France, where you could only rule by the slaughter of
a hundred thousand Frenchmen. As regards any thing else, I
shall ever feel anxious to do all that may tend to alleviate your fate,
and urge you to forget your misfortunes."

This was not, however, the only attempt made by the Bourbons to
negociate with the First Consul, Napoleon being equally assailed
by the arts of the then Count d'Artois, now Charles the Tenth, who,
in order to effect his purpose, expedited the Duchess of Guiche, a
most lovely and insinuating woman, for the purpose of bringing over

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4Q\

After these exposures, as it would have been madness
in the English ministers to deny the facts charged against
them, they took a method, unheard of before in the annals
of diplomacy, (unless we admit of the old Popish claim
to the- right of deposing kings and princes when- they
acted inimical to its usurpation); in fact, the British
ministry came forward with a written manifesto to justify
itself; for, on the 30th of April, a circular note, signed by
Lord Hawkesbury, addressed to the ministers of foreign
courts then residents at London, contended for the right of
belligerent powers availing themselves of all discontents'
which might exist in countries with which they were at
war,, and recriminated upon the French for keeping up a
correspondence with his Majesty's disaffected subjects in
Ireland ; alluding, at the same time, to a corps of Irish
rebels in the French service, and then actually on the
coast of France, destined to second the former in its
designs against the English government. This note went
still further: it acknowledged, that even if a minister,
accredited by his Majesty at a foreign court, had kept up
a correspondence with any person in France, with a view
of obtaining information, &c. he had done nothing more
than what ministers, under similar circumstances, had
always considered they ha<J a right to do.

It does not appear that a single ambassador replied to
this extraordinary mode of reasoning, which evidently co-
vered the detestable plea for assassination, under pretext
of assisting the inhabitants, justly discontented with any
existing government which might be at war with that of
Great Britain ? Strange as it may appear, this parrici-
dal principle was subsequently acted upon in Russia, and
again openly avowed ! We call it a parricidal principle,
because, as every sovereign is considered the father of his
people, the idea of assassinating him, when his subjects

Bonaparte to forward the views of his family to the French throne.
See Memoirs of Count Las Cases, and various other works on the
Political Manoeuvres of the House of Bourbon*

Digitized by

Google

4fl2 ' THE LIFE OF

are at war, is as cruel and mischievous as that of mur-
dering the father of a femily because his children are at
variance with another family or nation. Besides, when
Englishmen adopt snch a principle, what becomes of their
favourite maxim, " the King can do no wrong ;" and the
eld axiom, that " the worst of governments is better than
a state of anarchy ?" No pernicious principle in politics,
which admits of retaliation, should ever be adopted ; for
what language could possibly express the enormity of the
French Government, had it descended to the indignity of
attempting to retaliate this odious prinoiple opon our
then august Sovereign, under the flimsy pretext of assist-
ing the proscribed family of the Stuarts, or any of his
"discontented subjects?"

Bonaparte, on his accession to. the dignity of First
Consul, bad thought it requisite to have it established by
the suffrages of the people : but this form was no longer
deemed needful on being created Emperor; beoause, the
bodies, under the name* of the Tribunate and the Con-
servative Senate, represented to him the necessity of his
assuming the imperial title, so that this change in the
name scarcely excited a debate. Carnot only objected to
the assumption of the title of Emperor, upon the
same ground as be bad resisted the motion for vesting the
consular power in Bonaparte, daring life ; but this oppo-
sition was very feeble, and rather served to give the no-
mination the form of a free debate than otherwise* la
fact9 every man of discernment perceived that it was of
little consequence whether the Sovereign of France were
addressed by the name of First Consul or that of Em-
peror .* However, on the 5th of May, the Tribunate,

•Speaking of the host of authors who had vilified him in their
writings for his ambition, &c. Napoleon made the following just re-
mark to Las Cases : " I am destined to serve them for pasturage ;
but I have little apprehension of becoming their victim ; they grind
tfoeir teeth against the granite. My memory is composed of deeds,
and mere words will not suffice to destroy them. In order lo oppose

Digitized by

Google

NAPOJLEON BONAPARTE. 4<jg

exercising the right vested in it by the 29th article of the
Constitution, . passed the following vote :

" That Napoleon Bonaparte, First Consul, be pro-
claimed Emperor of the French, and, in that capacity*
invested with the government of the French Republic.

" That the title of Emperor, and the Imperial power* he
made hereditary in his family, in the male line, according
to the order of promigenitoreship.

" That, by introducing into the organization ef the
constitnted authorities, the modifications rendered neces-
sary by the establishment of hereditary power, the equa-
lity, liberty, and rights of the people, should be preserved
in all their integrity."

Between this vote and the formal address of the Senate
to the new Emperor, Joseph and Louis Bonaparte were
created Princes of France, and the former was also
made Colonel of the 4th regiment of the line, and ordered
to Boulogne, to join the army of England. At length,

me with success, they should appear armed with weight and authority
of their own: If the great Frederick, or any other of his stamp,
undertook to write against me, the matter would be completely re-
versed ; it would, in that case, perhaps, be requisite -for me to stir
myself; but as for all the rest, be their talents what they may, they

will only fire without ball. I shall outlive them and when they

would wish to shine, they will applaud me !" '

Brissot left two sons, one of whom lost his life in bringing back to
slavery those negroes in St. Domingo, to whose liberty his rather had
contributed % and the other was, some years ago, in Paris, in circum-
stances of distress* He had been placed by the government at one
of the Lycles, or publio schools, and when called up to take the oath
of allegiance to the emperor, in common with the other students and
the masters, he resolutely refused; he could not, he said, bring
himself to act in such violation of the principles for which his fa*
ther had died ; he then walked down the steps of the hall, and re-
turned home. Napoleon, however, respected his principles, and
afterwards provided for him.

It having been mentioned to Napoleon, as a reason for patronising
the first production of an author, and for speaking more favourably
of him in a review than his work intrinsically deserved, that the
young man was of a family long distinguished in the annals1 of liters'
ture ; the emperor exclaimed, " Why, you would not surely carry
your ideas of hereditary right so far ! no, no, whatever we lose, let
vs at least preserve the Repubtio of Letters."

Digitized by

Google

464 THE LIFE OF

the Senate having arranged the new regulations, they
were presented, in form, to Napoleon, at St. Cloud, on
die 18th of May, when the Consul Cambaceres, Presi-
dent, also read the Organic Act to the sovereign, and
delivered the subjoined address.*

* " Sire, The decree passed by the Senate, and which it takes the
earliest opportunity of presenting to your Imperial Majesty, is only the
authentic expression of a will, already manifested by the nation. This
decree, which confers on you a new title, adds nothing either to youc
glory or your rights. The love and gratitude of the French people
have, for four years past, entrusted to your Majesty the reins of
Government, and the Constitution of the State has reposed in you
the choice of a successor. This more august denomination decreed
is therefore only a tribute which the nation pays to its dignity, and
to the necessity it experiences of giving you daily testimonies of that
respect and attachment which every day increase.

" How could the French nation prescribe limits to its gratitude,
when you place none to yotir care and solicitude for its prosperity i
Preserving the remembrance of those evils which it suffered, when
abandoned to itself, how could it reflect, without enthusiasm, on the
happiness it has experienced since Providence inspired its children
with the idea of throwing themselves into your arms 1 Its legions
were defeated ; its finances were in disorder ; public credit was anni-
hilated ; factions wer.e disputing for the remains of our ancient splen-
dour ; every idea of morality, and even of religion, was obscured ;
the habit of giving and resuming power left the magistrates without
consideration, and even rendered odious every kind of authority.
Your Majesty appeared ; you recalled victory to our standards ; you
re-established order and economy in the public expenditure. The
nation, encouraged by the use you made of your authority, acquired
confidence in its dwn resources: your wisdom allayed the rage of
party ; religion saw her altars restored ; ideas of justice and injustice
were awakened in the minds of the citizens, when they saw crimes
followed by punishment, % and virtue signalized and rewarded by-
honourable distinctions. Finally, through your genius, the people
whom civil effervescence had rendered impatient of every restraint,
and hostile to authority, was made to cherish and respect a power
exercised only for its glory and repose.

" The.French people do not pretend to establish themselves judges
of the constitutions of other states ; they have no critical remarks to
make ; no examples to follow ; experience will in future become their
guide. They have tasted, for ages, the advantage of hereditary
power ; they have made a short but painful trial of the contrary
system ; they return, after mature deliberation, to a path suited to
their genius. They make a free use of their rights by delegating to
your Imperial Majesty, a power which your interest forbids you to
exercise of yourself. They stipulate for future generations, an4 by
a solemn compact, entrust to the offspring of your race, the hap*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 435

The Qrganic Senattis Consultum was proclaimed by
the Emperor, and published throughout Paris on the fol-
lowing day at noon.

His Majesty nominated to the dignity of Grand
Elector his Imperial Highness Prince Joseph Bonaparte;
to that of Constable, Prince Louis ; Consul Cambaceres was
appointed Arch-chancellor; and Consul Lebrao received'
the post of Arch- treasurer ; all of whom took the ne-
cessary oaths in the presence of the Emperor.

His Imperial Majesty then addressed an ordinance to
Consul Cambaceres in the following terms :

LETTER.

" Citizen Consul Cambaceres, your title is about to
be changed ; but your functions and my confidence re-

piness of their posterity. The former will imitate your virtues, the
tatter will inherit our love and fidelity. Happy the nation which,
after so much trouble and uncertainty, finds in its bosom a man
worthy of appeasing the tempest of the passions, of conciliating all
interests, and uniting all voices : Happy the prince who holds his
power by the will, the confidence, and the affections, of the citizens 1

" If it be in the principles of our constitutions (and already
several examples of this kind have been given) to submit 'to the
sanction of the people,, that part of the decree which concerns the
establishment of an hereditary government, the Senate has conceived
that it ought to entreat your Imperial Majesty to consent that the
organic dispositions should immediately be carried into execution;
and that, tor the glory as well as the happiness of the Republic,
Napoleon may be immediately proclaimed Emperor of the French."

The Emperor replied in the following terms :

" Every thing that can contribute to the good of the country is
essentially connected with my happiness. I accept the title which
you deem necessary for the tlory of the nation. I submit to
the sanction of the people the law of hereditary succession. I hope
France will never repent of its having accumulated honours upon my
family. In all cases, my spirit will cease to be present with my
posterity, the day on which it shall cease to deserve the love and con-
fidence of the Great Nation.*'

The Senate being then admitted to an audience with her Majesty
the Empress ; the Consul Cambaceres, equally addressed Josephine,
concluding his harangue in the following words :

" The Senate deems itself happy in this opportunity of being the
first to salute you Empress, while ne, who has the honour of standing
forth ks organ, hopes that you will deign to reckon him among the
number of your most faithful servants.,r

vol. 11.— 28. 3 o

Digitized by

Google

466 THE LIFE OF

maiA the same. In the high dignity of Arch-chancellor,
with* which you are going to be invested, yon will mani-
fest, as you have done in that of Consul, the wisdom of
your counsels, and those distinguished talents which have
given you so important a share in. all the good that I
stay hare accomplished.

" I have nothing, therefore, to request of you, but a
continuation of the same sentiments towards the state and
myself.

(Signed) n Napoleon."

At the Palace of St. Cloud, 28 Floreal.
Year \Q (May 18, 1804.)

" Napoleon, Emperor of the French, decrees the fol-
lowing generals to be Marshals of the Empire :

" Berthier, Marat, Moncey, Jourdan, Massena, Au-
gereau, Bernadotte, Soult, Brune, Lannes, Mortier, Ney,
Davoust, Bessieres.

" Tlie title of Marshals of the Empire to be given to
the following Senators :

" Kellerman, Lefebre, Perignon, Serrurier. .

(Signed) «• Napoleon."

" H. Ma ret, Secretary of State "

Bonaparte, who was too good a politician to suffer the
act of his elevation to pass as a mere civil ceremony, lost
no time in conferring upon it all the effect it could receive
from the aid of religious institutions. His new dignity
was, therefore, announced to the French bishops in
letters of a similar tendency to the annexed, which was
addressed to the Archbishop of Paris. We are the more
particular in noticing the religious promises made by
Napoleon as there never yet was a potentate who had
been able to realize either bis projects or his promises in
a manner equal to himself. The letter alluded to ran as
under.*

• " Cousin, the happiness of the French has always been the
dearest object of my thoughts, and their glory that of all my labours.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 467

Regulations for tbe coronation were ordered by an
Imperial Decree, dated from the Palace of St. Cloud,
July 9th.

This ceremony ^afe appointed to take place in the
month of November following, (the 18th Bramaire,) and
certain public functionaries from the several departments,
together with detachments from the different military
corps, were summoned to attend at Paris on that oc-
casion. The Emperor, however, and his court were
soon called off by different circumstances, from the en-
joyment of these high and dazzling dignities. These new
honours, it seems, previous to being worn, were again to
be won in the field. If the Duke d'Erighien was dead
bis advocates were alive and active. It was rumoured
that the territory of the Elector of JBaden had been
violated in the most indecorous manner, and that the
Duke had been forcibly taken in that country and carried
off by surprise ; but, when this matter was investigated,
it appeared that, notwithstanding the complaint this prince
sent to his son-in-law, the Emperor of Russia, he might,
in the first place, have arrested the emigrants at Etten-
heim, or, if he had chosen so to do, apprized tbe Duke
of his danger, and prevented his falling into the hands of
the French.

From the relationship between the Emperor of Russia
and the Elector of Baden, and the anxiety which the
English government bad indulged of bringing Russia

Called by Divine Providence and the constitution of the Republic to
the imperial power, I see in this new order of things only greater
means of assuring, both at home and abroad, the prosperity and dig*
hity of the country. I repose with confidence in the powerful succour
of the 'Most High. He will inspire his ministers with the desire of
seconding me by all tbe means in their power. They will enlighten
the people by instruction, in preaching to them the love of their
duties, obedience to the laws, and the practice of all Christian and
civil virtues. They will call down the benedictions of heaven upon
the nation and upon the supreme chief of the state. I write you this
letter, that, as soon as you have received it, you will cause Vcni
Creator and Te Deum to be sung in all the churches of your diocese,
&c. &c

Digitized by

Google

488 THE LIFE OF

once more into Ibe contest, it wonld not be unreasonabfe
to suppose that the French emigrants had been placed at
Offenburgh and Ettenheim, as a snare to induce the
French Government to commit itself with the Potentate
of the North and the empire of Germany. The Emperor
of Russia, however, took the earliest opportunity of
showing the interest be felt in the fate of the Duke
d'Engbien; and, notwithstanding the reasons which the
French had assigned for their conduct, he transmitted a
note to Paris, through M. D'Oubril, concerning this in-
fringement of the German territory. To that communi-
cation M . Talleyrand replied ; but his arguments, though
very pointed, did not, by any rceans, satisfy the Emperor
of Russia; the fact was, he wished to be a champion,
but, though determined to fight, was still not so fool-
hardy as to begin before be had called the German empire
to his assistance. Yet, though this representation and
the professions of the Emperor of Russia laid the foun-
dations for a new war, the flame thus kindled was some
time before it broke out. After various representations
and recriminations on both sides, the Russian minister,
D'Oubril, who began only with remonstrating upon the
proceedings against the Duke d'Engbien, concluded by
adding several new demands, and in the middle of July
he tlirew them into the following diplomatic form : —

" The undersigned has been ordered to declare that
he cannot prolong his stay at Paris unless the following
demands be previously complied with.

I. " That the French Government shall cause its troops
to evacuate the kingdom of Naples ; and, when that is
done, engage to respect the neutrality of the kingdom
during the present and any future war.

II. " That the French Government shall promise to
establish immediately some principle in concert with his
Imperial Majesty for regulating the basis upon which the
affairs of Italy shall be finally adjusted.

III. " That it shall engage to indemnify, without

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE 4gg

delay, the King of Sardinia for the losses be bas sus-
tained.

IV. " That the French Government shall 'promise \xa-
mediately to evacuate and withdraw its troops from the
North of Germany, and enter into an engagement to
respect, in the strictest manner, the neutrality of the
Germanic body.

" The undersigned begs to add that he has received
orders from his government to demand a categorical
answer to these four points.

" D'Oubril."

The answer demanded was given, and, in consequence,
M. D'Oubril made preparations for leaving Paris ; but,
in the interim, as one of the great powers had thus led
the way, France found herself doomed to hear language
still more offensive and hostile from Sweden. Accord-
ingly, on the 27th of July, a note was presented by the
Swedish minister at Ratisbon, in which the King, as
Duke of Pomerania, very strongly protested against the
seizure of the Duke d'Enghien, and called upon the
Germanic body to unite and obtain satisfaction from
France for the violation of its territory, &c. In thia
document the King of Sweden not only urged his being
a member of the Germanic constitution but also a gua-
rantee of the treaty of Westphalia; circumstances at
that time, considering what bad happened to the empire,
just as chimerical as if his Majesty George the Fourth
was, at this present moment, to insist upon the validity
of his honorary title as King of France !

Immediately after this, an order was issued at Stock-
holm whereby French journals of every description, and
other publications, were strictly prohibited from being
imported into Sweden.

Notwithstanding this violence on the part of the mem-
bers, the Emperor, although at the head of the empire,
was not quite so hasty in espousing their quarrels, or
entering the, lists with Napoleon. Francis, indeed,

Digitized by

Google

470 TIIE LIFE 0F

having felt himself completely despoiled of most of his
former honours, and that he was, in reality, no longer
Emperor of Germany, still, resolving not to lose his for-
mer nominal dignity, determined on assuming the new
title of Emperor of Austria. On the 11th of August,
therefore, a royal patent appeared, dated from Vienna,
in which the Emperor declared that, after the example of
Russia in the preceding century, and that 90 recently
given him by the new sovereign of France, he had de-
termined, after mature reflection, on assuming, for him-
self and his successors, the title of Hereditary Emperor
of Austria.

This dignity, in imitation of that which Napoleon had
been supposed to have conferred upon himself, was quietly
assumed in the cabinet ; but it will very soon appear that
both of them werq yet to be contended for, and either
lost or confirmed on the Bold of battle.

In the month of November, the English ministers were
surprised on hearing that the French had seized and
carried off Sir George Rum bold, the British CJiarge
d' Affaires to the Hans Towns and the circle of Lower
Saxony, while at Hamburgh, on the night of the 25th of
the preceding month ; his papers had also been seized ; and
that he had been hurried to Paris, and there confined in
the Temple. From this temporary incarceration Sir George
was, however, liberated, and sent to England shortly
after by one of the most temporizing of all monarchs,
viz. the King of Prussia. Still the English did not fail
to exclaim against this violation of the person of an am-
bassador, on the part of the French, as one of' the most
odious outrages against the law of nations. They forgot
that the act of getting possession of the papers of ac-
credited agents, even by seizure and violence, was an
old though dangerous practice of civilized governments,
nor did it occur to the defenders of the British ministry
that if any insult had been offered to one of their ambas-
sadors they had only to thank themselves, as Lord

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEQN BONAPARTE. 471

Hawkesbury's note on the propriety of employing agents
in foreign nations as spies and exciters of sedition in an
enemy's country had placed them ont of the pale of the
law of nations. This, indeed, was one of the first efforts
of the new morality* which the war-faction subsequently
improved npon.

On the 25th of November, bis Holiness the Pope
arrived at Fontainbleau, fer the purpose of officiating at
the coronation of the Emperor Napoleon, which had been
fixed for that month. Bonaparte, who was enjoying the
chase at the moment of his arrival, met him at La Croix de
St. Herem, upon which both alighted and embraced each
other ; six of bis Majesty's carriages then came up, into
one of which Napoleon first entered, and placed his
Holiness upon his right hand, when they arrived at the
castle through two lines of troops and a thunder of
artillery. Cardinal Capura and the great officers of the
household, received them at the bottom of the gilt stair-
case, op which they both proceeded as far as the spot
which separated their apartments : bis Holiness, having
there quitted the Emperor, was conducted by the Grand
Chamberlain, the Grand Marshal of the palace, (Duroc,)
and the Grand Master of the Ceremonies, to the apart*
ments prepared for him ; when, having rested some time,
be paid a formal visit to the Emperor, and afterwards to
the Empress, after which her Majesty reconducted him •
as far as the second room of her apartments, the Pope
then returning to his own chamber, where the ministers and
great officers of the empire were presented to him. At
four o'clock the Emperor sent notice to the Pope that he
intended waiting upon him, and accordingly repaired to
the closet of his Holiness ; the same ceremony was ob-
served on the Pope's returning this visit, and at each
interview they remained together about half an hour.*

* Pope Pius the Sixth was described by one deeply read in the
human character, who had lived in habits of intimacy with the holy

Digitized by

Google

472 THE LIFE OF

The ceremony of the coronation took place on the 2d
of December, the day appoinled,f when the senate,

father, as blending in his mind the eager curiosity and simplicity of a
, recluse with great natural shrewdness and intelligence ; Paris opened
a new scene of observation to this dignified monk, and he expressed
his wonder and admiration with all the naivete* and frankness of child-
hood. " I have seen a great deal," he observed to one whom Na-
poleon had recommended to him as a ciceroni, " but I have not yet
seen the Palais Royal; pray let us go there." — " &. Pere," re-
turned the baron, " c'est impossible" adding, that it would commit
the character of his holiness, and compromise the discretion of his
guide. u But I would go," replied the Pope, eagerly, " travestito
da curato." This extraordinary masquerade did not, however, take
place.

While the Pope remained in Paris a number of idle boys made a
-trade of assembling under his windows, to sell his benediction, which
they did by crying, •« Les benedictions du trcs St. Pere, pour deux
sous /" " The benedictions of the most holy father for one penny !"
and, when they had collected a crowd, and received the money, they
commenced an vutcry, calling on the Pope to appear, and to bestow
his benediction ; in the same manner as the English mob called for
" Bluchcr" and ** the Emperor,9' when those personages were in
London. The Pope always complied with their demand, appeared,
and gave the required benediction, perfectly unconscious of the trick
that was played on him. His amiable manners won golden opinions
from all who had access to him ; and as far as be was known m France,
either as a guest, or as a prisoner, be was popular, pitied, and ad-
mired.

f Much has been said and many animadversions made upon Bona-
parte's placing the crown upon his own head, and not waiting to re-
ceive it from the hands of the Pope, and he is represented as having
snatched it impatiently from the holy father. That he placed the
crown on his own head is very true, but that he snatched it from the
Pope's hands is an error. The ciowns, both for himself and the Em-
press, were laid upon the altar ; -and the Pope, having anointed the
foreheads and temples of the Emperor and impress with oil, which
be had previously consecrated for the purpose, proceeded to bless
and consecrate the crowns, taking them in his hands as he pronounced
the benediction. He then replaced them on the altar; and, retiring
to his own seat, Napoleon advanced. Taking in his band the crown
destined for himself, which was a wreath of laurel, he pronounced the
oath to the nation, which bad been decreed by the senate, and repeated
a formula signifying his acknowledgement that he held the crown by
the favour of God and the French people ; after which he placed it
upon his head. The Empress then advancing, he raised, ia like man-
ner, the crown destined for her, in form the same as the queens of
France used to wear, and pronouncing a formula purporting that she
held the crown only as his true and lawful wife, and not from any right
inherent in herself, he placed the diadem upon her head.

The Emperor Napoleon was not anointed with the sainte ampoule,
the holy oil, with which the kings of France were formerly conse-

Digitized by

Google

ttAPOtfiON BONA*>ARTE. ff J

pursoabt to a former Eolation, presented itseffi* abody*
*t eleven 9'dtfek in the foreikoan, at the pakurt of the
Faileriest Having been introduced into the cfcatober of
state, the members were presented to the Emperor bjf
Prince Joseph, the Grand Elector, when hk Exeeliertcy,
Mi Francis do Nenfchateaa, addressed his Majesty, wM
in a strain of the most foUome flattery* as qur newspapers
were pleased to term every thing of the kind directed to
the French Emperor, nor yet altogether devdid of that
pgreeatye Mud of embellishment, hetag coached ih the
following terms :—

" Father of thy CoUhtry !

" In the nfime of ti>4t protecting God, beatow a bless*
ing on thy children \ and, rdying on their fidelity, be
assured that nothing cap either efface from tbei* pindp pr
root ont of their hearts the engagement resulting fyvm
the mutual contract that has just been entered into. be-
tween the French .pation and the imperial .family* In tbfl
absence of the throne all great characters yield them*
selves np to faction ; a people is so pinch the more to be
pitied in proportion to the number of its distingqished
children % all that might constitute the pride of nations
then becomes their scourge. From the mpment that the
throne is worthily occupied, eminent virtues claim the
reward of approaching nearer to it ; and the distinction
is so much the more flattering, as real dignities carry
with them more imposing names.

" The title of Emperor implies the law ; not of that

crated at Rheims, and which was reputed to have been brought
originally from heaven by an angel for the consecration of Pepin,
the first Christian king of France, From that time a constant supply
had been always miraculously furnished ; so that, whatever quantity
was used, the original stock was never diminished* But the revo-
lution, in depriving France of her ancient race of sovereigns, de-
prived her also of this sacred unguent ; and the unholy dynasty, by'
which the throne of France was afterwards filled, was content to re-
ceive no other unction than what might be used upon the most ordi-
nary occasion.
vol. II,— 29. 3 p

Digitized by

Google

474 THE LIFE op

royalty before which subjects bumble and prostrate them-
selves/ but the great and liberal idea of a first magistrate
governing in the name of those laws .which citizens feel
honour in obeying.

. " The title of Senate equally indicates an assembly of
chosen magistrates, of tried experience and venerable in
years. The greater the Emperor is the more august
should be the Senate."
His Majesty replied in the following terms : —
" I ascend the throne to which the unanimous wishes
of the senate, the nation, and the army have called me,
with a heart penetrated by the great destinies of that
people whom, from the midst of camps, I first saluted
under the name of * Great.9 From my youth my thoughts
have been solely fixed upon them, and I must add that
my pleasures and pains are derived entirely from the hap-
piness or misery of my people. My descendants shall
long preserve this throne ; in the camps they will be the
first soldiers of the army, sacrificing their lives invdefence
of their country. As magistrates, they wiH never forget
that contempt of the laws and the confusion of social
order are only the result of the imbecility and unsteadiness
of princes. Tou, senators ! whose counsels and support
have never failed me in the most difficult circumstances ;
your spirit will be handed down to your successors : be
ever the props and first counsellors of that throne, so
necessary to the welfare of this vast empire." ,
• It is unnecessary to add, that the coronation of Napo-
leon was distinguished by all the usual testimonies of
public joy.* On our side of the water it proved only a

# The largest picture ever known to have been executed, prior to
M » David's representation of the ceremony of Napoleon's- inaugura-
tion, is the justly celebrated performance of Paul Veronese, now at
the Louvre, being thirty-throe feet long, and eighteen high: whereas,
that of which we speak contains two hundred and ten personages,
eighty of whom are whole lengths, and is thirty-three feet long, and
twefity-one high. This performance occupied four yean in its corn-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPAETE. 475

source of additional ohagrin to those who were interested
in the war, or who gave credit to the representations of

pletion, during which' many impediments were thrown in the way of
the artist's labour, by the clergy on the one hand, and the orders of
the emperor on the other. Cardinal Caprara, for instance, who is re-
presented bareheaded, producing one of the finest heads in the pic-
ture, was very desirous of being painted with the decoration of his
wig; Napoleon had also ordered the Turkish ambassador to be ex-
hibited in company with the other envoys ; but he objected, because
the law of the Koran forbids to Mahometans the entrance into a
Christian church. His consent, however, was at length obtained,
and these scruples removed, under the consideration, that, in the
character of an ambassador, he belonged to no religious sect.

During the execution of this colossal picture M. David was inces-
santly interrupted by the applications from artists to witness the pro-
gress of his work ; amongst whom was Camucini, prince of the
Roman school, and the late famous statuary Canova, who daily pre-
sented themselves at the artist's painting gallery. At the last visit made
by Camucini he found David surrounded by many of his pupils, and '
on taking leave of the painter, he bowed to him in the most respectful
manner, using the following expressive words on the occasion :

." Adio il piu bravo pittore at scholari ben bravi.**

On Canova's return to Italy, in order to fulfil what he conceived
to be his duty in regard to this artist, he proposed to the academy of
Saint Lue, that he should be received an honorary member ; when
the academicians set aside their usual forms, and, in honour of M.
David, unanimously elected him one of their body, Canova being
chosen to announce this pleasing intelligence to their new associate.

The picture was completed in 1807, when, prior to its public ex-
position, Napoleon appointed a day to inspect it in person, which
was the 4th of January, 1808 ; upon which occasion, in order to
confer a greater honour upon the artist, he went in state, attended by
a detachment of horse and a military band, accompanied by the Ero-

Cress Josephine, the princes and princesses of his family, and foj-
>wed by his ministers and the great officers of the crown. •
Several criticisms had been previously passed upon the composi-
tion, which had gained the emperor's ear, and in particular, that it
was not the coronation of Napoleon, but of his consort ; the moment
selected by the painter was, however, highly approved by his master, -
who, after an attentive examination of the work, expressed himself
in these words.

" M. David, this is well; very well indeed; you have conceived
my whole idea; the empress, my mother, the emperor, all, are most
appropriately placed, you have made me a French knight, and I
am gratified, thai you have thus transmitted to future ages the
proofs of affection I was desirous of testifying towards the empress."
After a silence of some seconds, Napoleon's hat being on, and
Josephine standing at his right hand, with M. David on his left; the
emperor advanced two steps, and, turning to the painter, uncovered

Digitized by

Google

475 n« Lira of

mitttstert aad tfuirr Useling advocates. Kaviog- nvftbrog
better to urgf^ they objected that it was cruel in the

himself, making a profound obeisance w&ile uttering these words in
an elevated tone of voice, " Monsieur David, I salute youP'

49 Site," replied the painter, " I receive the compliment of thft
Emperor, in the name of all the artists of the empire, bappy in
being the individual one, you deign to make the channel of such an
honour."

In the. month of October, 1608, when this performance was re*
moved to the museum, the Emperor wished to inspect it a second
time ; and M. Daxid, in consequence* attended in the hall of lb*
Louvre, surrounded by his pupils ; upon which occasion, at the Era*
peror's desire, ha vine pointed out the most conspicuous eleves who
received the decoration of the legion of honour: " It is requisite ,**
said Napoleon, '•' that I should testify »y satisfaction to the master
of so many distinguished artists ; therefore^ I promote you to be
officer of the legion of honour: M.Duroc, give a golden decoration
to M. David /" " Sire, I have none with me" answered the Grand
Marshal. '< No matter? replied the Emperor; " do not let this
day transpire without executing my order." Duroc, although no
friend to the painter, was obliged to obey, and on the same evening
the insignia were forwarded, to M. David.

The King of Wirtembcrg, at the suggestion of the Emperor, also
waited upon the artist to inspect his labour, who on coutemplati/iif
the performance, 'and in particular, the luminous brightness spread
aver the group in which are the Pope and Cardinal Caprara, his
Majesty thus expressed himself: " I did not believe that yoor art
could effect such wonders ; white and black in painting afford but
very weak resources. When you produced this you had, no doubt,
a sunbeam upon your pencil."

This compliment, which displayed great knowledge of the art,
surprised the painter, who, after offering his thanks, added : " Sine*
your conception, and the mode in which you express it, bespeak
either the practical artist or the well-in formed amateur. Your Ma-
jesty has doubtless learned to paint." " .Yes," said the King, " I
sometimes occupy myself with the art, and all my brothers possess a
similar taste ; that one in particular, who frequently visits you, has
acquired some celebrity ; for his performances are not like tine gene*
rality of royal paintings, they are worthy of the artist. M. David,"
added the monarch, " I dare not hope to obtain a copy of this pic-
ture ; but you may indemnify me by placing my name at the bead
of the subscribers to the engraving; pray do not forget me*"

As the generality of my readers may not be acquainted With the.
reason for Napoleon's adopting the bee as an ornament on his robes
at the coronation, the following anecdote may not prove Uninteresting.
It was a custom in France, during its' early and barbarous ages, that
whenever a monarch died, his horse and page were killed and buried
with their master,- that they might be in readiness to attend upon him
jn the next world. In the year 1653, the tomb of Cfeildcric, the

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 477

extreme the havuJg fenced tfafr poor ok* Polpe to- uadtir
take a journey from Route to Paiia, in order to crown
Bonaparte; and yet this is the nation that,. in.it* capaft*H
at least, burned thfc Pope, in effigy, every yeaify far crime*
committed tmt centuries ago! Bat the real, earn* of
their mortification wis, to find that his Hetintas being
rendered subservient to the French Emperor as a tern*
poraJ prince, there was no longer any hope, 6tf the ptaft
of the allies, of making use of his authority id far*
tberance of their designs : for if the Pope, or any per*
son properly delegated by him, would have, given abaoku
tion to certain agents, that the allies might have hired to
assassinate the French Emperor, even soch would have
been a material point preserved ; but under the then cir-
cumstances that, with several other hopes and resources*
had equally faifed them.

Thus passed the whole of the year 1804 ; on our side,
the physical advantages gained over the ships and colonies
of our enemies were but few compared with the moral

father of Clovis, was discovered, and within it were found the skeleton
of a man, that of a horse, and part of the skeleton of a youth, conn
eluded to, be the remains of Childeric and his companions. On further
search in the tomb were found a purse, containing above a hundred
pieces of gold and two hundred pieces of silver, bearing the heads of
different emperors of France; a crystal ball or orb, a pike, a battle-
axe, the handle, mounting, and blade of a sword ; gold tablets ami
style; the bit, and part of the harness of a horse; fragments of a
dress or robe ; and more than three hundred little bees of the purest
gold, their win^s being inlaid with a red stone like cornelian. ' The
appropriation ot this emblem was hence suggested to Napoleon. A
gold signet ring was taken from the finger of the larger skeleton;
upon it appeared an engraved head, having long hair flowing over the
shoulders, and around it the words, " Childcrici Regis;99 several
buckles, massy gold bracelets, and a golden head of an ox, supposed
1 to be an image of the idolatrous worship of the deceased.

Among the various pastimes displayed on this august occasion wa&
the letting off a balloon, accompanied by two pigeons, whereto wa»
affixed a full account of this pompous ceremony. It is a singular
circumstance that this aerial machine, after a lapse of. twenty-two
hours, fell precisely before one of the gates of Rome; of which ao
account appeared in the Moniteur of the 15th or 16U) of thp same
month. Tnis was regarded by many as an ominous circumstance. .

Digitized by

Google

4.78 TUE LIFE 0F

advantages obtained by France.' As these are very ad-
mirably explained in the French annual expose, delivered
at the opening of the session of the legislative body at
Paris, oa the 26th of December, 1804, we presume we
cannot close oar history of Bonaparte, to that period, in
a more advantageous manner, than by presenting to oar
leaders, in the subjoined note, a partial retrospect of
public affairs, contained in a state paper, not less valuable
for what it related of the past than what it promised in
respect to the future ; presenting facts that could neither
be weakened by sophistry or darkened by prejudice.*

• " G entlkmbm 1 — -I am about to have the honour of laying before you
the existing state of the French empire. The interior of r ranee is, at
this period, what it was in the calmest times : no movement which can
alarm public tranquillity ; no crime which belongs to the remembrance
of the revolution ; everywhere useful undertakings, and the improve-
ment of public and private property attest the progress of confidence
and security ; the principles of social order, better known and more
refined, have attached all hearts to one common prosperity : this is
what every administration proclaims ; this is what the Emperor has
witnessed in all the departments through which he has travelled ; the
armies have seen themselves separated from their generals, all the
military corps from their chiefs; the superior tribunals deprived of
their first magistrates; the public ministry of its organs; the churches
of their pastors ; the towns, the districts, simultaneously abandoned
by every one who had power and influence over men's minds : the
population everywhere left to its genius; and the people showing
themselves desirous of order and of the laws. At the same moment
the Sovereign Pontiff has travelled through France ; from the banks
o( the Po to the borders of the Seine, and has uniformly been the
object of religious homage.

A plot, laid by an implacable government, was on the point of
replunging France into the abyss of civil war and anarchy : on the
discovery of that horrid treason, all France was moved, and the na-
tion having experienced that power divided Was without unison and
strength, and being made sensible, that, entrusted for a time, it was
only precarious, and permitted neither long labours nor mature
thoughts ; that, entrusted for the life of a single man, it grew weak
with him, and was left, after him, to the chances of discord and anar-
chy ; it was convinced, in fine, that the only safety for great nations
was in hereditary power : which could alone secure its political
life, and embrace, in its duration, generations and ages. The se-
nate 'was, as it should be, the organ of this common disquie-
tude: it was proclaimed by the electoral colleges, by the ar-
mies, the council of state, and the magistracy ; the most enligh-
teued men, in short, were consulted, and 4 heir answer was unanimous.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 47©

The commencement of the year 1805 was distinguished
by a very singular trait in the character of the French

The necessity of heredtary'power, in a state so vast as France, had
been, long since, obvious to the First Consul : in vain had he resisted
the force of principles ; in vain bad he tried to establish a system of
election, which might perpetuate public authority, and transmit it
without danger ana without troubles: the hopes of our enemies were
employed to annihilate his work ; his death was to be the ruin of
his labours. It was till this period that foreign jealousy and the spirit
of discord and anarchy awaited us : reason, sentiment, experience,
dictated equally to all Frenchmen, that there was 'no certain trans*
mission of power but that which was effected without intermission,
that there was no tranquil succession but that which was regulated by
the laws of nature. When such motives supported such pressing
wishes the determination of the First Consul could not be doubtful i
he resolved to accept for himself, and two of his brothers in success
sion, the load which was imposed on him by the necessity of circum-
stances. From his meditations, ripened by conferences with the mem-
bers of the senate, by discussions in the councils, by the observa-
' tions of the wisest men, was formed a series of dispositions, which
fixes the inheritance of the imperial throne ; which assigns to the
princes their rights and duties ; which promises to the heir of the
empire an education regulated by the laws, and such' as will render
him worthy of his high destinies. These dispositions were decreed
by the Senatus Consultum of the 28th Floreal : the French people
has manifested its free and independent will ; that the imperial oig-»
nity should be hereditary, in the direct, legitimate, and adoptive de-
scendants of Napoleon Bonaparte, of Joseph Bonaparte, and of Louis
Bonaparte. At the same moment Napoleon was, by the most just
of titles, hailed Emperor of the French ; no other act was necessary
to ascertain his rights and consecrate his authority, than his wish to
restore to France her ancient forms, to recal those institutions which
the Divinity seems to have inspired, and to impress upon the be-

finning of his reign the seal of religion herself. To give to the
'reach a striking proof of his paternal tenderness, the Chief of the
Church is willing to laid his ministry to this august ceremony. In
the midst of such pomp, and under the eye of the Eternal, Napoleori
will, pronounce the immutable oath, which secures the integrity of
the empire, the stability of property, the perpetuity of institutions,
and respect for the laws, and happiness of toe nation ! The oath of
Napoleon will be for ever a terror to her enemies, and the buckler
of the French. A project of a criminal code has been submitted to
the censure of the tribunals, and is now undergoing a final discussion
a in the Council of State, together with those of Procedure and Com-
merce. The Schools of Legislation are about to open ; inspectors
are nominated, who will enlighten public instruction, and prevent its
degenerating : the Lyceums and the Secondary Schools are filling
with youth eager for instruction : Fontainbleau has already sent forth
military men, remarked in our armies for their martial appearance^
their knowledge, and their respect for discipline. The Polytechnic
School peoples with useful hands our arsenals, our ports, and our ma*

Digitized by

Google

4Qg THE LIFE Or

JE«perar^— To tome of oor English writers this action
appeaitedao extrainrdi&ary, thai they doubted whether H

nu&ctories. At Comptegoe the School of Arts and Trades otrtams,
every day, new successes : that which is to be formed upon the bor-
ders of La Vendee is expected with impatience, and will, shortly, .
flourish in complete activity. Prizes have been decreed to sciences,
to letters, and to. arts, and, in a period of ten years, assigned to la-
bours that his Majesty wishes to recompense, be has a right to expect
that French genius will bring forth new masterpieces. In the depart-
ment of bridges and highways the works have been carried oa with
constancy, and every year prepares new schemes for the prosperity
of the state, in the centre of La Vendee a new dty is erecting, in-
tended to be the seat of administration : from thence it will exercise
over every point an active and sure superinfendance ; from thence
kpowledge and sound principles will be propagated throughout that
department, in which ignorance and the want of "instruction have so
frequently delivered over simple and honest minds to the intrigues
of malevolence. Decrees of the Emperor have recalled commerce
to the left bank of the Rhine, and bestowed on Mentz and Cologne
all the advantages of real emporiums, without the danger of introduc-
ing contraband goods into the interior of France. Manufactures are
improving ; and whilst, in vain declamations, mercenaries, paid by
the British government, .boast its distant and precarious resources,,
-dispersed over the seas and the Indies ; whilst they describe our work-'
shops as deserted, and our workmen dying with misery, our industry
extends its roots over our own soil, repels English goods far from our
frontiers, and has succeeded in equalling it, ia what formed its glory
and success, the perfection of its machinery ; and is alike preparing to
dispute pre-eminence in everyplace where it can meet with and attain
it. Our first manufacture, agriculture has enlarged and become
clear by a system of exportation, that insures to the husbandman the
price of his labour and abundance to our markets. New encourage-
ments prepare the improvement of the race of our horses ; our wools
are meliorated ; our fields are covered with cattle, and throughout
every district of the empire its true riches multiply.

Religion has resumed its empire ; it is no longer exercised but for
the good of humanity; a wise tolerance accompanies its doctrines,
and the ministers of different forms of worship, who adore the same
God, do honour to themselves by testimonies of reciprocal respect,
and know no other rivalry than that of virtue. Such is our internal
position: without ;— -French courage, seconded by Spanish good faith,
has preserved to us St Domingo. Martinique braves the menaces of
our enemies, and, under a paternal government, renders stronger and
more durable the ties which attach it to the mother country. Guade-
loupe has enriched itself with the spoils of British commerce; and
Guyana continues to' prosper under an active and vigorous administra-
tion. The Isles of France and of Re-union would be, at the preseat
day, the emporium of the riches of Asia, and London would despair,
had not inexperience or weakness baffled a scheme most ably con-
certed. Our armies are always deserving of their reputation : with

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 4a |

ought to be characterized by the peopliar epithet of pre-
sumption, insolence, or folly : ID fact, he had the temerity

the same valour and the same discipline, they, have acquired that
patience, which waits for opportunities without murmuring, and con-
fides in the prudence and designs of the chief who conducts them.
Our fleets, by continual manoeuvres, lead the way to combats ; and
whilst those of our enemies are wearing out, in striving against winds
and tempests, ours learn, without destroying themselves, to fight
against them. . Finally, having by the war acquired Hanover, we
are more than ever enabled to strike decisive blows against our
enemies. Our navy is in a better state than for the last ten years ;
upon land our army is more numerous, better disciplined, and pro-
vided with every thing cajculated to ensure victory. In the depart-
ment of finance, the same activity prevails in collecting the receipts,
the same regularity in the management, and the administration of the
treasure ; and almost uniformly the same stability prevails in the value
of the public debt. The revenues of the crown will support all the
expenses of the coronation, and those still demanded by the splen*
dour of the throne : the lustre which surrounds it will never be a
burden to the nation. The situation of Europe has experienced hut
one important change. Spain, reposing under a neutrality to which
France had consented, and which the British cabinet had. acknow-
ledged, was suddenly attacked, and the Treaty of Amiens violated
in regard to her, as it had previously been in respect to France.
His Catholic Majesty has adopted the expedient iroposed upon him

by the dignity of his throne and the honour of a generous people, i

whose destinies he directs. The Emperor of Austria devotes himself J

■ ■ : \

to the restoration of his finances, the progress of commerce, and the
interests of his subjects. The Italian republic, governed by the
same principles as France, requires a definitive organization, which
may ensure to the present and future generations all the advantages
of the social pact. United to that republic by the duties imposed
on him, as president and founder of the state, his Majesty will reply
to the confidence it testifies towards him, and ensure its destinies
and independence. Helvetia enjoys in peace the benefits of her con-
stitution, the wisdom of her citizens, and qur alliance. Batavia still
groans under an oligarchical government, without either union in its
views, patriotism, or vigour. Its colonies have been, a second time,
sold and delivered up to England, without firing a gun; but that
nation possesses energy, morals, and economy ; it requires only a
firm, patriotic, and enlightened government. The King of Prussia
has uuiformly shown himself the friend of France ; and the Em-
peror has profited by every occurrence that presented itself, to consoli-
date such happy harmony* The Electors, and all the members of
the Germanic body, faithfully maintain the relations of benevolence
and friendship which unite it to France. Denmark follows the coun-
sels of a wise, moderate, and judicious policy. The spirit of Catha-
rine the Great will watch over the councils of Alexander I. he will
recollect that tlie friendship of France is a necessary counterpoise for
htm in the balance of Europe ; that, placed at a distance from her,
vol. 11.— 29. 3q

Digitized by

Google

482 • THE UFE 0F

to address his Britannic Majesty, personally, in a letter
written with his own hand ; in which he deprecated the
farther continuance of a war, in the prosecution of which
so much useless blood was shed, without any view or ob-
ject whatsoever : he said " he thought it no disgrace to
take the first step towards conciliation, in a moment
which afforded the most favourable opportunity to silence
the passions, and listen only to the sentiments of humanity
$nd reason. He adjured his Majesty not to deny him*
self the pleasure of giving peace to the world, nor to leave
that delightful task to his children. He reminded the
British monarch, that the latter had gained more in the
last ten years, both in territory and riches, than the whole
extent of Europe ; but that the effect of such a measure
would be to increase the preponderance and continental
greatness of France only. Did England hope to renew
the internal troubles of France, or destroy her finances,
or deprive her of her colonies? a war would produce no
Such effects. The French were happy ;, a -flourishing
state of agriculture was the support of their finances, and
the colonies were but a secondary. object : besides, had
not the King of England, at that moment, more than he
knew how to preserve ?" (.\fter some further reasoning

he can neither preserve nor disturb her repose, and that his great
interest is, to find in his relations with ter a necessary vent for the
productions of his empire. Turkey is wavering in her politics ; she
follows, through fear, a system which her interest disavows. May
she never learn, at the expense of her own existence, that fear and
irresolution accelerate the fall of empires, and are a thousand times
more fatal than the dangers and losses of an unfortunate war ! What-
ever may be the movement of England, the destinies of France are
fixed ; strong in her union, her riches, and the courage of her de-
fenders, she will faithfully cultivate the alliance of her friends, and
never act so as either to deserve enemies or to fear them. When
England shall be convinced of the impotence of her efforts to agitate
the continent ; that France will never accept any other conditions
than those of Amiens, nor consent to leave her the right of breaking
treaties at pleasure, by appropriating Malta to herself; then, and
only then, will England have acquired pacific sentiments, and become
convinced that hatred and envy have only their day."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE 433

of a similar cast, this document concluded with the fol-
lowing words :) " If your Majesty would but reflect, you
must perceive that the war is without an objeot and void
of any presumable beneficial result as regards yourself!
Alas ! what a melancholy prospect ! to cause two nations
to combat only for the sake of fighting ! The world is
sufficiently capacious for our two nations to exist toge-
ther ; and reason is powerful enough to discover means
of reconciling every thing, when the wish for reconcilia-
tion exists on both sides. I have, however, fulfilled a
sacred duty, and one which is precious to my heart.
Peace/' Napoleon also observed, " was his first wish,
though war had never been inconsistent with his glory.
He thought there never was a more fortunate opportu-
nity than the existing one, to ratify amity ; that moment
^pnce lost, he demanded, what end could be assigned
for a war, which all his efforts would not be able to ter-
minate." t

To this pathetic letter the following cold systematic
answer was returned ; not from the band of the Monarch,
but from that of Lord Mulgrave, Secretary of State for
.Foreign Affairs ; dated 14th of January, 1805, and ad-
dressed to M. Talleyrand.

" His Britannic Majesty has received the letter which
has been addressed to him by the Head of the French
Government, dated the 3d of the present month. There
is no object which his Majesty has more at heart, than to
. avail himself of the first opportunity to procure for his
subjects the advantages of a peace, founded on such a
basis as may. not be incompatible with the permanent se-
curity and essential interests of his dominions : his Ma-
jesty is persuaded that this end can only be attained by
arrangements which may, at the same time, provide for
the future safety and tranquillity of Europe, and prevent
,a recurrence of those dangers and calamities in which it
is involved. Conformably with this sentiment, his Ma-
jesty feels it impossible to answer more particularly the

Digitized by

Google

484 THE LIFE OF

overture that bag been made, until he has bad time to
cotnmmiicate with the powers on the Continent, with
whom be is engaged hi confidential connexions and rela-
tions ; and, particularly, the Emperor of Russia, who has
given the strongest prooft of the wisdom and elevation of
the sentiments wherewith he is animated, and the Kvely
interest he takes in the safety and independence of the
Continent.

" Mulgravb."

Notwithstanding such an indefinite answer as the
above, it was generally allowed that the French Em-
peror's letter no longer breathed that tone of arrogant
superiority which characterised the language of the
French Government during the preceding year ; no re-
ference whatsoever was madelo the impossibility of Eng-
land contending against France " single-handed ;" nor
any apparent wish to consider us in any other light than
as a formidable rival.

Early in the month of February this letter With the
above answer were communicated to the French fegisfa-
tive body, by order of the Emperor* M. Segur, in pre-
senting those documents, introduced them1 with a speech,
which plainly evinced the French Government was not
pleased with the answer it had received, M. Segur
would not admit that Russia, Austria, or Prussia, would
embark in a war merely to gratify England ; yet, if he
was wrong in those premises, he was right in his conclu-
sion; viz. " That the hopes of England, in a third coali-
tion, were vain and chimerical; and that it only re-
mained for French bravery to display its consolidated
energies, and finally triumph over that eternal enemy to
the liberty of the seas and the repose of nations/'

Yet even after this imperial letter and its answer had
been made public, it is to be inferred, from fbe speech
of M. Talleyrand, that it was still the wish of the French
Government the overture should be considered as 'open,
and that, after Russia had been consahed, farther dis-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 485

cessions of an amicable nature might take place.
M« Talleyrand observed, " That en a question regarding
a multitude of interests and passions, which had never
been in unison, they ought net te rest apon a single
symptom. Time (he said) would soon develope to the
French the secret resolutions of the English Government ;
should those be just and moderate, the calamities of war
would cease ; shoald (said he), on the contrary, this first
appearance of accommodation prove bat a false light,
intended to answer speculations of credit, to facilitate*
loan, the acquisition of money, &c. ; we shaH know bow
far the dispositions of the enemy are implacable and ob-
stinate ; we shall then have to banish all hope from a
dangeroas lore, and trust, without reserve, to the good-
ness of oar caese, the justice of Providence, and the
gonitis of the Emperor." Time, which has been the best
comment open the actions of those ministers who used
this language, could it furnish itself with a tongue, weald
have had no occasion for the pen of the historian. Time,
in reality, evinced that those bopes of peace were un-
substantial ; that the British ministers, and the mercan-
tile interest that governed them, talked of peace bat
wished for war ; it has equally proved, that while all tbe
hopes founded upon these mean and mercenary considera-
tions were roinonsly deceptive, the speculations of the
Frenoh were not only realized, bat even tbe most
sanguine of their wishes far exceeded ; tad that they did
•not trust ia vam to tbe goodness of their cause, the jus-
tice of Providence, or tbe genius of their Emperor.

With respect to Italy, it was observed, that though
Bonaparte, certainly one of tbe most fertanate, if Mt
tbe greatest character en whieh tbe page of history ever
dwelt, ted taken upon himself the style and title of fim<-
<peror of the'Gauls; yet, respect for a form of govern-
went be bad so -teeentty established in tbe Northern and
Middle Provinces of Italy, induced him to forego, at the
moment 6f Us advancement to the imperial diadem, the

Digitized by

Google

486 THE LIFE OF

personal sovereignty of that country. He; however, felt
himself emboldened, in the coarse of the present year, to
extend his views of family aggrandizement, and the iron
crown of Charlemagne was destined to circle the brows
of. Napoleon ; who, when he was hailed King of Italy,
had his views upon the Northern Provinces and the fertile
Island of Sicily. It wonld be deemed trifling, to dwell
npon the solicitations that were sent from various parts
of Italy, beseeching the Emperor to assnme to himself,
and his heirs, the Italian diadem. It is sufficient to say,
that, on the 25th of May, Bonaparte, having repaired to
the cityv of Milan, one of the first witnesses of his
astonishing military talents was there crowned with the
utmost splendour, solemnity, and imposing magnificence.
The Emperor, seated on a superb throne, having at his
right the honours of the empire, on the left those of Italy,
and. before him the insignia of Charlemagne, was invested
with the usual forms of royalty, by the Cardinal Arch-
bishop, and finally ascending to the altar, took to himself
the Iron Crown, and placing it upon his head,. exc/aimed
aloud, (it being a part of the ancient ceremony on en-
throning the Lombard Kings,) Dieu me la donne; yard*
iqui la louche f viz. "God gives it to me; beware those
who touch it."

.- After the ceremony, the new Constitutional Code was
communicated to the states ; the most ^remarkable of its
provisions being that which vested the regal authority
, solely in the person of Napoleon, with the privilege of
naming his successor; after which, the crown, with certain
limitations,. was to be hereditary. It was decreed, that
the future monarch should constantly reside within the
Italian states, but that, while the present King retained his
crown, he might be represented by a Viceroy! who should
positively reside within the boundaries of the kingdom.
After the death of Napoleon, it was also stipulated,, that
the kingdom must never again be vested in the same
persop as ruled the French empire. However, imate-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 487 .

djately after the promulgation of this body of laws, Prince
Eugene Beaaharnois, son of Madame Bonaparte, by her
former husband, was appointed Viceroy, and a new order
of knighthood, namely, that of the Iron Croum, instituted,
with considerable revenues attached to that dignity ; and
the organization of the new kingdom was soon after ar-
ranged and completed .*

• It can scarcely be doubted, that the French Emperor'*
design in causing himself to be crowned King of Italy,
was to strengthen his frontiers; and particularly to guard

* Upon the election of Bonaparte to be first consul, Bologna followed
the fortunes of the ci-devant Cisalpine Republic. The departmental
administration remained unchanged; but an additional council was
created to provide for local contingencies, and to levy a local tax for
the expenses these might occasion. The deliberations of this body
were subject to the approbation of the prefect. By this change of
government, the debt of the province (being thirty-two millions)
became national.

On the 8th of June, 1805, Napoleon being declared King of Italy,
the departmental administrations and councils ceased; and the fiscal
arrangement* of the province* became absorbed in those of the king-
dom at large. The arrival of Napoleon at Bologna was followed by
numerous acts of regal munificence. The debt contracted by the com-
missioners for securing the course of the rivers was added to the na-
tional debt. At the same time, the immediate completion of the works
on the new line of bed for the emptying the Reno into the Po, was
ordered, and the expense directed to be charged on the public trea-
sury* A public garden and walk were likewise commanded at Bolog-
na, and funds were assigned for its construction and maintenance ; and
a property of one hundred and fifty thousand francs was also granted
for the enlargement of the museum, and other establishments of the
university. The internal economy of the departments, under this
regime, was the same as in all the other departments of the empire
and the kingdom.

It is, a singular circumstance, and it tells forcibly in favour of the
French regime, and of the natural genius and activity of the Bolognese
people, that, notwithstanding the vicissitudes which those provinces
had undergone, notwithstanding the variety and long continuance of
military occupation, and the magnitude of the contributions paid,
there was no part of Italy in higher cultivation, more prosperous in its
external appearance, more comfortable in its buildings, or more re-
plete with a well dressed, and well fed population. Much of this pros-
perity might be attributed to the enterprising character of the French
government under Napoleon, and to the difference between the
stirring, bustling tyranny of its military chiefs, and that lethargic,
benumbing despotism, which, under Austrian and Papal governments,
opposes every developemcnt of the intellectual and physical 'faculties
of the subject, and does its best to convert a paradise into a desert. .

Digitized by

Google

4«a THE w*E °*

against big implacable enemy the King, or rather the
Qaeea of Naples, The observation made to the King of
Great Britain in the tetter addressed to him, respecting
bis vast acquisition ,ef territory, for the last ten yean,
span the continent of India, may also be looked upon asa
kind of apology on the part of the French Emperor, for
the liberties he had taken in thai of Europe; bat, as
deference to ancient usages ooqld no longer be expected,
the Reach Emperor was now determined, formally, to anile
the territory of the once proud city of Genoa to his own
possessions- The ceremony attending this act took place
also at Milan, on the 4th of Jane, when the Doge of Genoa,
in a full convocation of the great officers of state, ad-
dressed, and solicited the French Emperor to grant the
Genoese nation the happiness of being his subjects, when
bis Majesty returned a very long and gracious answer, in
the course of which he said : —

" I will realize your wish : I will unite you to my great
people. It will prove to me a new means of rendering
more efficacious the protection I have always loved to
grant My people will receive you with pleasure: they
know that, in all circumstances, you have assisted their
arms with friendship, and have supported them with all
your aid. They find, besides, in possessing your ports,
an increase of maritime power, which is necessary to
them for maintaining their lawful rights against the op-
pressors of the seas. By this union with my people, you
possess a continent, whereas you had only ports and a
marine. Ton will find a flag, whioh, whatever may be
the pretensions of my enemies, I will maintain, on all the
seas of the universe, constantly free from insult, from
search, and exempt from the right of blockade, which I
will never recognise but for places really blockaded, as
well by sea as by land. Too wiU find yourselves sheltered
under it from this degrading slavery, the existence of
which I reluctantly suffer with respect to weaker oationa,
but from which I will always guarantee my subjects."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 439

Having settled these important concerns, the Trench
Emperor left Italy on his return to Paris, where he ar-
rived on the 12th of Augyst.* But, as it has been sap-
posed that he was seriously deceived in his expectations
of a continental peace, and, therefore, thought himself
at liberty to proceed to Boulogne, to organize his army and
his flotilla for the invasion of England, he certainly lost
no time in repairing thither. The style in which he was
received, the magnitude of the force assembled at this
spot, together with the spectators, rendered the whole ex-
tremely interesting ; we, therefore, insert the following
amusing account of the festival which took place on that
occasion, as inserted in the Moniteur.

" Seated on the throne of one of the kings of the first
race, the Emperor had immediately on his right Prince
Joseph, and behind him the great officers of the crown ;
on each side the ministers, marshals of the empire, and
colonels-general ; in front and on the steps were his Ma-
jesty's aides-de-camps ; and on the' benches at the foot of
the throne, on the right, the counsellors of state, the
generals arrived from the interior, and foreign officers ;

* Napoleon informed Las Cases that, upon his return from being
crowned King of Italy, when in the environs of Lyons, the multitude
flocked to behold him in all directions, upon which the idea struck
him that he would ascend alone and on foot the mountain of Tarare.
The Emperor had issued strict commands that no one should follow
him ; and, having mingled with the crowd, addressed himself to ati
old woman, inquiring the reason of the assemblage of such a con-
course of people ; to which she replied that the Emperor would
shortly pass that way. After having said a few words of a political
tendency, he then continued: — "But, my good woman, you foi>
merly had the tyrant Capet, and now you have the tyrant Napoleon,
bow, in the name of heaven, have you profited by the change V9
€t The -force of this remark," continued Napoleon, " staggered the
old dame for a moment, who at length replied as follows : — ' Pardon
me, sir ; after all, there is a great difference ; we have chosen the
latter ourselves, whereas the former was placed over us by mere
chance.' The old lady was in the right," added Bonaparte, " and
she displayed in those few words more instinct and wisdom than
many others who possessed refined education and a fund of strong
natural sense/'

yol.i1.~-29. 3 r

Digitized by

Google

490 THE LIFE OF

and on the left the civil and religions functionaries. The
remainder of the space in the middle was occupied by the
Imperial Guard, the musicians on one side, and two
thousand drummers on the other; at its extremities were
the grand staff of the army and the general staff-officers
of the camps. The Emperor beheld on his right the two
camps and the batteries, the entrance of the port, and a
part of the roads, and on his left he had a view of the
port of Vimereux and the coasts of England. In front
advanced sixty battalions, formed in twenty columns, the
heads of them occupying half the circumference of the
circle. In front and in the interior, still nearer the
throne, were platoons of legionaries of all ranks and of
the different branches of the service. The extremities
of the columns advanced towards the heights, which were
occupied by twenty squadrons in battle array, and com-
pletely covered with an immense crowd of spectators and
the tents appointed for the ladies.

" Never was there a disposition more simple, nor one
which presented a more imposing aspect. But every
thing announced that the tempest which had prevailed on
that part of the coast for eight- and -forty hours would
also disturb the enjoyment of the splenflid day. The
south-west wind accumulated dark clouds and agitated
the waves. The Euglisfa cruisers had retired, and ap-
peared only through the haze of the horizon. At noon
the Emperor left his hut, and a salute from all the bat-
teries of the coast announced his arrival. That instant
the sun illumined the ceremony, and no more wind blew
than was sufficient to make the colours wave.

" On the appearance of the Emperor the drums began
to beat, and shouts of joy, on the part of the army and
the spectators, marked his presence and the enthusiasm
which it excited. They then beat a charge,, and the dii%
ferent columns instantly closed their ranks, which fine
movement electrified all the heroes with military ardour.

" The Grand Chancellor of the Legion of Honour

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 491

pronounced a discourse ; and, after a roll of the drums,
his Majesty recited the oath, when all the legionaries ex-
claimed, We swear it ! and, from a spontaneous impulse,
the whole army repeated this vow of fidelity and attach-
ment, and cries of Long live the Emperor! resounded
amidst all ranks, who brandished their arms and waved
their colours, expressive of their joy. The great digni-
taries, the commandants, the officers, and the legionaries,
then approached the throne, where, being presented by
the Minister-pt-War. they individually received from bis
Majesty's hands the decoration of the eagle.

" It was delightful to behold the marshals of the em-
pire, the generals, the counsellors of state, the prefects,
bishops, officers, soldiers, agd sailors, receiving, each in
his turn, the reward of honour from the hands of Bona-
parte, who, recognising every one, received him as the
companion of his toils and his glory. These decorations
were held up by several officers, in the helmets and buck-
lers of the armours of Dugoesclin and Bayard.

" One trait was wanting to complete this magnificent '
picture. The flotilla could not go out; but the star of
the Emperor conducted one, as if for the express pur-
pose, from Havre. All eyes were turned towards the sea,
and the most lively joy was manifested on beholding the
ocean pay its tribute to the entertainment of the Emperor,
since that convoy, which bad been expected for six days,
arrived at tfie moment of the solemnity.

*' It was now four o'clock ; the wind freshened, and
the billows rose. After the flotilla entered, four boats
and five pinnaces, which had cleared the Channel, went
a-ground on the sand-bank under the wooden fort ; they,
however, received no damage, and next tide were floated
off and brought into harbour.

" TJie Emperor passed the evening in his hut ; and all
the legionaries were entertained at the tables of Prince
Joseph, the Minister-at-War, the Minister of the Marine,
Marshal Soult, and Admiral Bruix, in tents decorated in

Digitized by

Google

492 THE LIFE OF

a military style, when the health of the Emperor was
drank with enthusiasm, amidst the report of all the artil-
lery of the batteries on the coast."

About this time it was said by the French — " All that
belongs to England is finally threatened by 1,500 vessels,
which compose onr flotilla, with sixty ships of the line,
and a valiant army, commanded by the first generals in
• the world/' The French, also, made no secret of their
means for transporting 200,000 men to the English shores
in the coarse of a night. However, from these enormous
preparations, it is clear Bonaparte was very suddenly
gammoned, even while at Boulogne, where, it is pro-
bable, he received such information respecting the Em*
peror of Austria, as induced him to leave the coast with-
out delay. Soon after, instead of passing the Channel,
he prepared for traversing the Rhine, to which boundary
it appeared the Austrian troops were fast approaching ;
or, as an historian of that day expressed it, with respect
to Bonaparte, having satisfied himself as to the efficiency
and excellent appointment of this vast body of troops, as
no less than 115,000 disciplined soldiers, without count-
ing upon the cavalry or artillery, were assembled on his
coast, he again proceeded to Paris, where the threatening
aspect of affairs required his immediate presence. In
our next we shall take a retrospective view of the nego-
tiations between England, on one side, and Austria and
Russia on the other, which led to this grand continental
rupture.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 493

CHAP. XIV.

The Camp at Boulogne broken up, and the Army marched to
oppose the Austrians and Russians in Germany— Talley-
rand's Note to Count Cobentzel, previous to the above De-
termination on the Part of Napoleon — Expose of the Em-
peror to the Conservative Senate of France — Napoleon
quits Paris to join the Grand Army and March of the various
Corps — His Proclamation to the Troops — Battles of Wer-
tingen, Guntzburgh, Memmingen, and Elchingen, all of
which were in favour of the French — Bonaparte's Ad-
dress to his Army on investing Ulm— Account of the Affair
at the latter City— Capitulation of Ulm, signed by General
Mack, when 30,000 Men laid down their Arms on the Glacis —
A Campaign terminated in a few Days — Operations of Mar-
shal Massena in Italy, against the Archduke Charles — Re-
sults of the Defeats sustained by the Austrians and Russians
at Ulm — Napoleon proceeds to Munich — Disposition of his
Army — The French pass the Inn, near Brannau— The Im-
perialists and Russians retreat towards Vienna — The Empe-
ror of Austria's Proclamation to his Subjects— Saltzburg,
Lintz, and the Ems abandoned — AtAmstettin the Russians
make a Stand and are defeated "An Armistice proposed by
Count Giulay, but refused by Napoleon — Affair ofMarien-
zell — Proclamations of the Emperor Francis disregarded
by his Subjects — The French enter Vienna without further
Opposition, and quiet Behaviour of the Troops — Part of the
Army advances towards Moravia — Bravery of 5000 French
opposed to 20,000 Russians at Stein — The Emperor of
Austria proceeds from Brunn to Olmutz — Another Procla-
mation issued by Francis — Russians attacked and pursued,
with the Events that preceded the Affair of Austerlitz.

We have now to recur to the more immediate causes of
the breaking up of the camps on the sea-coast, for the
purpose of transferring' them to those of the Rhine, Ihe

Digitized by

Google

494 THE LIFE 0F

Ion, and the Danube. From the tenor of several of the
official papers, that had appeared in the course of 1804,
on the parts of Austria and Russia, it might well have
been expected, that fresh efforts would be made to assist
the English and renew the war. In consequenoe of
these preliminary steps, so early as the 11th of April, a
treaty between his Britannic Majesty and the Emperor
of Russia was signed at Petersburgh ; by virtue of which,
after observing, that the state of suffering, in which
Europe was placed, demanded some speedy remedy, the
contracting parties mutually agreed to consult upon the
means of putting a stop to the existing state of things,
without waiting for further encroachments on the part of
the French government. They, in consequence, agreed
to employ the most prompt and efficacious means to form
a general league of the states of Europe ; and, in order
to accomplish such end, proposed to collect together a
force which, independent of the succours furnished by his
Britannic Majesty, might amount to 500,060 effective
men, who were to be employed with energy : either to
induce or compel the French government to consent to
the re-establishment of peace, and the balance of power
hi Europe.

The objects proposed to be obtained by this league
were the evacuation of the Hanoverian, territory, and the
north of Germany :

A guarantee for the independence of the Republics of
Holland and Switzerland :

The re-establishment of the Ling of Sardinia in Pied-
mont, with as much territory as circumstances would
permit:

The security of the kingdom of Naples, and complete
evacuation of Italy, the island of Elba included, by the
French forces, and the establishment of an order of things
in Europe, which might effectually guarantee the security
and independence of the different states, and present a
solid barrier against future usurpations,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 495

His Britannic Majesty engaged to contribute to the
common efforts, by employing his forces both by sea and
land, as well as vessels for transporting troops in the ge-
neral plan of operations ; and to assist the different
powers by subsidies, which should correspond with the
amount of the respective forces employed.

It was mutually agreed that, in the event of this league
being formed, the parties should not make peace with
France, except by common consent.

Sweden and Austria had already entered into these
views, though they had not as yet manifested any inten*
• tion of proceeding to hostilities before they had tried the
effect of negotiation : for which purpose Baron Novo*
siltzoff set forwards for Paris to negotiate, and had
gained Berlin, when the intelligence of the annexation
of Genoa to the French Empire arrived at that city : this
step was supposed to be of sufficient importance to put a
stop to all further proceedings, short of hostilities ; for,
as it seems that the Baron applied to his court for instruc-
tions, the result was, his recal. Previous, however, to
his departure, he addressed a note to Baron Hardenberg,
dated July 10, 1805, which was communicated to the
latter, through the medium of M. la Foret, the French
resident at Berlin. This note fully explained the canse
of the interruption of the Baron's mission.

These measures being looked upon as a signal for
Austria to declare herself a member of this new confede-
racy, a treaty to that effect was signed, on the 9th of Au-
gust, by the Austrian plenipotentiary at Petersburgh.

About the same period, a note was presented by the
Austrian ambassador at Paris, announcing that the anx-
ious desire of his government to promote a general paci-
fication had only been interrupted by the changes re-
cently made in the condition of the republics of Genoa
and Lucca. But, though war was predetermined on the
part of Austria, the minister urged the renewal of mea-
sures of conciliation, iu which the court of 'Vienna again,

Digitized by

Google

406 ™E LIFE OF

offered her most earnest assistance. To the sophistry and
political finesse resorted to on that occasion, a note from
M. Talleyrand* was certainly the best reply ; not only

• As this first note of M. Talleyrand was of some length, we in-
sert only the leading features, the instrument in question having been
delivered, on the 13th of August, 1804, to Count Philip CobentzeJ.

" The uudersigned has hastened, on the termination of the confe-
rence which he has bad the honour of holding with Count de Co~
bentzel, to transmit to Boulogne the declaration delivered to him by
his Excellency, (alludiug to the Austrian declaration of the 5th of
August,) and he has received orders from the Emperor and Ring to
return the following answer : — The Emperor could not fail to be sen-
sibly affected by the tone of moderation manifested in the aforesaid
document, and the readiness of the Emperor of Germany to hasten,
by his friendly offices, the termination of the evils caused by the war
to the French empire. If, however, such interpositions cannot be em-
ployed with advantage, or the compromising the dignity of the medi-
ator, that alone would be decisive with his majesty, were it even pos-
sible to forget how the cabinets of London and St. Petersburgh an-
swered his most noble and magnanimous behaviour, in repelling such
' amicable adjustments on the part of Austria. M. de Novosiltzon?
was repairing to France without the Emperor's knowing his inten-
tions, and the King of Prussia had required passports, for that cham-
berlain, of the Emperor of Russia, which were immediately granted.
Yet what benefit has his Majesty derived from that extraordinary-
concession ? An offensive note, replete with false assertions, was the
sole result of a mission, which the Emperor bad neither occasioned
nor required. Being thus attacked in his honour, it is no longer pos-
sible for him to require or • expect any thins of Russia, whose beha-
viour is unveiled, while, for a twelvemonth past, the Emperor has
received nothing but insults from the Russian cabinet It belongs to
the Emperor Alexander to judge, whether he will persist in adhering
to foreign influence, or return to more moderate, just, and wise senti-
ments. As to England, his Majesty made an attempt, eight months
ago, to incline her to peace ; but from the answer returned by the
British cabinet, it was clear that all hope of an amicable adjustment
was extinct, that power being resolved on setting the continent in
flames, and covering Italy with blood and carnage. The cabinet of
Vienna is too enlightened not to perceive this, from the pressing
solicitations, and offers of subsidies, with which she has constantly
been besieged by England, to induce it to take up arms. It cannot,
therefore, be hoped that the power in question will listen to the ad-
vice of moderation and justice- It would even be useless to address
her on the subject of personal interest, since blind passions induce it
to mistake them. England knows, and has declared, that Russia
alone cannot afford her the requisite assistance, and that a diversion
will be of no use, so long as Prussia and Austria do not co-operate.
Prussia has uniformly declared, she will not enter into any hostile
project against France. Let the Emperor of Austria make the same
declaration, and England will immediately see the necessity of return*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 497

because it related to circomstances of diplomatic dopli-
©ity ; bat because the results of this conduct, on the pari
of the allies, were therein anticipated in that masterly
manner which was the general lot of almost every state
paper, published on the part of France, from the very
first sera of the two nnfortnnate wars.

By this note it appears, as well as from the slight pre-
text that occasioned the return of Novosiltzoff, that his
repairing to negotiate was only a political manoeuvre, pro-
bably to gain time. Contrary, however, to the adoption
of a rational system, the lapse of a few days made it evi-
dent to the French government, that, as all hopes of con-
* vincing Austria of her mistaken policy were vain, it was
necessary to acquaint her that the French Emperor was
neither ignorant of the force Germany was preparing,
nor fearful of the consequences that might arise. In a
second note from M. Talleyrand, delivered on the 16th of

ing to the stipulations of the treaty of Amiens. If, on the other
hand, Austria, by indecisive measures, leaves a doubtful opinion';
she authorises the assertions of the English ministry, that she belongs
to a coalition, and by continuing to keep 72,000 men in Italy, the
Emperor of France must believe that she thinks the moment favour-
able for resuming hostilities. The Emperor of the French now sees
preparations making in Poland and in Italy ; even the very places
where they are carrying on, demonstrate the whole to result from a
preconcerted agreement, and point out against whom they are in-
tended. The undersigned begs to ask Count Cobentzel, what the
Emperor of Germany would do, if he were placed in the situation
of the French Emperor ? May Austria issue the same ultimatum as
Prussia, and confirm such declaration by reducing her whole force to
a peace establishment. In such case amity must be the desire and
hope of England ; and the treaty of Amiens will thus be restored
before the month of January. The crowns of France and Italy will
then be separated for ever : Europe enjoy tranquillity, the result of
the wisdom of Austria ; whereas, by an opposite line of conduct,
Europe must be involved in a situation, which neither the cabinets of
the Tuileries or Vienna can either calculate or foresee.

" The undersigned can have no doubt but his Excellency Count
Cobentzel will duly appreciate the value of the subjects discussed
in tbe present note, and contribute, by his influence, to have them
considered in such a point of view, &c.

(Signed) " C. M. Talleyrand."

vol. 11.— 29. 3 s

Digitized by

Google

4S8 THE, LIFE OF

August, be acquainted Count Cobeateel with every thing
that England then wished to hear.— " His Majesty," said
he, " entirely occnpied with the war which England fans
raised, since he has given Austria no caase of complaint,
hoped she would preserve the strictest and most impartial
neutrality ; but the movements of troops, and the other
hettile dispositions in the Hereditary States, at which
Europe is either uneasy or astonished, compel bis Majesty
to demand, not only a categorical explanation, but a most
speedy one. The repeated accounts which the Emperor
receives from all quarters compel him to postpone Mm
project* oftttMst Rngkmd, and fcbas Austria baa dene an
much as if she had commenced hostilities, since An ban
made the most powerful diversion in favour ol England*"
As Russia had evidently become a party in this new
plan of hostility, grounded upon the aggrandisement of
France, Germany, and Italy ; and as this, also, formed
an outline in the Russian notes, See. it was incumbent on
the French government to reply to those suggestions.—
In answer, therefore, to the note addressed to the court
of Berlin, by M. Novosiltzoff, the former power complained
of its being unseasonably published in the German journals :
that it contained false assertions ; that the Emperor of the
French had long observed, in silence, the progress . of
Russia towards the south of Asia ; and contemplated, with
just uneasiness, the danger that threatened Persia and
Turkey, the latter of which countries was the sole bar*
tier between the continent and Russia. It was further
added that Rassia took no sincere part in the interests
of the continent ; but interfered in political storms, only
to increase hatred and inflame passion. That all recrimi-
nation, therefore, on the part of Russia, the Emperor
viewed as a mere pretext, without any foundation in
truth ; that France had broken off no negotiation ; since
passports merely solicited and obtained, did not really
constitute a negotiation ; that France had said nothing*-—
Russia having alone made a demonstration ; viz. a feint,

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 499

demanding- that one of her agents should be heard, and
that *nch agent bad been abruptly withdrawn !

Tiie representations of the French Emperor did not
terminate there ; they also formed the basis of an exposi ;
wbioh was read, by the minister of Foreign Affairs, in
the Conservative Senate of France, on the 28d of Sep-
tember, 1605, wherein the infamy of the war was again
wholly imputed to England ; and, on the same day, the
Emperor Napoleon, addressing the Senate, said, he felt it
an urgent dnty imposed upon him to appear among them,
in order folly to explain his sentiments. " I am," said
he, ° just leaving the capital, to place myself at the
head of the army, in order to carry speedy sncconr to my
allies. I tremble at the idea of the blood that must be
spilt in Europe, but the French name shall emerge with
renovated and increased lustre. All promises I have hi*
tfeerto made to the French people have been fulfilled, and
they, in turn, have more than performed every engagement
made towards me. They will, consequently, at a moment
s6 important for their glory and mine, persist in asserting
the title of the Great Nation, a name with which I
greeted them in the midst of the fields of death and glory."
Napoleon then concluded in these words : " Frenchmen t
your Emperor will discharge his duty ; my soldiers and
the senate wiH also accomplish theirs.1' It is scarcely
too much to assert, that no monarch or general was ever
better seconded in the field, than Napoleon after, as
well as previous, to that declaration. Such effectual aid
was quite contrary to the expectation of the English and
their allies, who had vainly imagined that the French
would be disheartened at the prospect of a fresh contest,
and such a formidable coalition as the united forces of
Great Britain, Sweden, Russia, and Austria, must have
presented.

The Emperor left Paris on the 34th of September, and
arrived at Strasburgh on the 26th. Marshal Bernadotte,
at the moment when the army set out from Boulogne, had

Digitized by

Google

500 THE LIFE OF

advanced from Hanover towards Gottingen, then marched
by Frankfort for Wurtzburgb, where, he arrived on the
23d of September.-— General Marmont, having gained
Mentz, passed the Rhine by the bridge of Cassel, and
advanced to Wurtzburgb, ,where he formed a junction
with the Bavarian army, and the corps under Marshal
Bernadotte. — The corps under Marshal Davoust passed
the Rhine on the 26th at Manheim, and marched by
Heidelborgh and Necker-Eltz, on the Necker. — The
corps under Marshal Soult passed that stream on the
same day, over the bridge which had been constructed at
Spires, and advanced towards Heilbronn. — Marshal
Ney's division passed the Rhine the same day, by means
of a flying bridge, opposite Durlach, and marched to-
wards Stotgard. — The corps nnder Marshal Lannes
passed that river, on the 25th, at Kehl, and advanced
towards Lonisburgh. — Prince Murat, with the cavalry of
reserve, traversed the Rhine at the same place, and on
the same day, and remained for some time at a position
before the defiles of the Black Forest. His putroles,
which often showed themselves to those of the enemy,
induced the latter to believe that it was the Emperor's
intention to penetrate by those defiles. — The great park
of artillery passed the Rhine at Kehl, on the 90th of
September, and advanced towards Heilbronn. Napoleon
passed the Rhine on the 1st of October, at Kehl, slept
at Ettlingen, the^ame evening, received there the Elector
and Princes of Baden, and went to Lonisburgh to the
Elector of Wurtemburgh, in which, palace he took up
his abode.— >On the 2d, the divisions of Marshal Berna-
dotte, General Marmont, and the Bavarians, who were at
Wurtzburgh, formed a junction, and began their march for
the Danube. — The corps of Marshal Davoust proceeded
from Necker-Eltz, by the route of Meckmuhl, Ingelfin-
gep, Chreilshem, Dunkelsbuhl, Frembdingen, Oettiogep,
Haarburgh, and Donauwerth.— The corps of Marshal
SquU jnarched from Heilbronn and followed the route

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 501

t

of Ochringen, Hall, Gaildorf, Abslgmund, Aalen, and
Nordlingen. The corps of Marshal Ney proceeded from
Stutgard, following the route of Erslingen, Goppingen,
Weissentein, Heydenheim, Natlkeim, and Nordlingen,
while that of Marshal Lannes marched from Louisburgb,
taking .the road from Gross-Beutelspach to Pludernau-
sen, Gemund, Aalen9 and Nordlingen. —The following
was the position of the army on the 6th instant : The
corps of Marshal Bernadotte, and the Bavarians, were at
Weissenbnrgfa. The -corps of Davoust at Oettingen, and
on the Banks of the Rednitz. That ef Marshal Soult at
Donauwerth, in possession of the bridge of Monster, and
repairing that of Donauwerth. The corps of Marshal
Ney was at Koeffingen, that of Lannes at Neresheim,
while Prince Murat, with his dragoons, was stationed
on the Banks of the Danube.— The men were in perfect
health, and burning with desire to engage the enemy.

At this period the . following proclamation was issued
by Napoleon to his troops :

" Soldiers !

" The war of the third coalition is commenced : the
Austrian army has passed the Inn, violated treaties, and
attacked and driven our Ally from his capital. — Ton,
yourselves, have been compelfed to advance, by forced
marches, to the defence of our frontiers. Already have
you passed the Rhine. We will not again make peace
without a sufficient guarantee.— Oor policy shall no more
give way to our generosity. Soldiers ! your Emperor is
in the midst of you : you are only the advanced guard of
a great people. If it should be necessary, France will
all rise at my voice, to confound and dissolve this new
league, which has been formed by the hatred and gold
of England. Yet, soldiers, we shall have forced marches
to make, fatigues and privations of every kind to endure.
Whatever obstacles may be opposed to us, we wjU over-

Digitized by

Google

£02 THE LIFE OF

come the*, and take no rest 131 we have planted oar
eagle* on the territory of oar Mamie*.

(Signed) u Napoleon," &e.

The Austrian army, consisting of nearly 90,000 men,
under General Mack, had advanced to the defiles of the
Blaok Forest, apparently with the intention of preventing
the French army from penetrating those defiles. They
bad thrown np fortifications on the river Iller, and were
strengthening Meaungen and Ulm; bat all these pre-
cautionary measures were of little avail, as the French
amies had taken another route, which the Austrian*
never suspected, and were already in their rear. It
seems that a division, belonging to Marshal Soalt, had,
by means of a forced march, got possession of a bridge
at Dunawert, defended by the Austrian regiment of Col*
leredc, with the less of only a few men. By day-break
the next morning Marat frrived there also with the French
cavalry ; and, having passed the. bridge, caased it to be
repaired ; when, in conjunction with the rest of the ca-
valry, under General Walther, he traversed the stream,
and advanced towards the Lech, where he forced the
enemy, there posted, to retreat, Marat remaining that
night at Rain. On the 6th, Marshal Sonit, with the tw#
divisions of Generals Vandamme and Legrand, marched
towards Augsbwgh, while General St. Hilaire, with bin
division, also ad vanced to that point, by the left baak of
the Danube. On the same morning, Prince Morat, at
the head of several divisions of cavalry, arrived at Wer-
tingen, in order to cat off the communication between
Uhn and Aogsbnrg ; there he encountered a considerable
body of the enemy's infantry, supported by four sqna-
drons of Albert cuirassiers. Marshal Lannes, who, with
Oudinot's division, had followed these corps, succeeded
in defeating and making a part of (his portion of the
Austrian army prisoner*, together with their artillery and
baggage. The Austrian*, on that occasion, lost eight

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. flOS

siajodards, the whole of their caoaon# a mraiber ef offi-
cers, and 4,000 men.

On the same day intelligence was received that Mar*
shal Davoust's corps had arrifed at Newbnrg, while that
of Marmont, with the Bavarians, advanced to EicbteUin*
Marshal Soult, after having put to Sight a btidy of
Austrian*, which bad fallen back npon Aieha, entered
Aogsbnrgh on the 7th, with the divisions of Va&dammefr
Si. Hifadre, and Le Grand. Davoust, who had passed
the Danube at Newburg, also arrived at Aicba with his
divisions on the evening of the 9lh. The Dutch troops,
under General Dumonceau, had taken post between
Aicba and Augsburg. Bernadotte, with the Bavarians*
under Generals De Roy and Verden, had taken posses-
sion of IngoMstadt ; and the Imperial Guard, under
Marshal Bessieres, and Hantpolt's cuirassiers, armed
at Augsburg. By this time, also," Mural's cavalry had
occupied the village of Zummerfaaosen, to intercept the
road from Augsborgh to Ulm. Marshal Lames, witfe
the divisions of Oudinot and Suohet, took post, en the
same day, at that village, where the French Emperor
reviewed the troops, and expressed bis satisfaction at
their behaviour in the affair of Wertingen; he also be~
stowed marks of honour upon two ^ragoon^ wb* had par*
tieulaiiy distinguished themselves.*

* This circumstance is detailed in the third boUetin, datodtbe
10th October, 1805, in the following words :— '* The Emperor
passed in review the dragoons of Zummerhausen, when he ordered to
be brought before him a dragoon, named Moitnie, of the 4th regi-
ment, one of the ^alfctnt soldiers who, in the passage of the Leek
had saved his captain, who, but a few days before, had cashiered
htm from his rank, when his Majesty bestowed upon him tile Eagle
•f the Legion of Honour ; upon which the soldier QteerveiV • I have
only done my duty ; my captain degraded me on account of some
violation of discipline, but he knows that I have always proved a good
soldier/ The emperor next expressed his satisfaction to the dragoons
for Che conduct they had displayed at the battle of Wertingen. He
ordered each regiment to present to him a dragoon, on whom he also
bestowed the Eagle of the Legion of Honour. His Majesty ex*

Digitized by

Google

504 *UE LIFE OF

The action at Wertingen was soon followed by one at
Guntzburg ; where Marshal Ney, with several divisions,
and the dismounted dragoons of Barraguay d'Hilliers,
having re-ascended the Danube, attacked the enemy,
first in their position at Grunberg, and afterwards suc-
ceeded in passing the river at Gontzbnrg, notwithstand-
ing a gallant resistance on the part of the Austrians, who
had advanced from Ulm to that place, with the Yiew of
collecting a -sufficient force to act upon the offensive.
With this body they occupied Guntzburg, its right wing
resting upon the village ot Limpach and its left on the
Kaiserberg. The Austrians were also in possession of
the bridges on the Dannbe as fur as Leipheim, which the
French, however, attacked, who fonnd they were de-
fended with obstinacy. Of the first bridge the assai-
lants made themselves masters, being that of Guntzburg,
and the causeway leading thereto. The Arohduke Fer-
dinand made a brave attempt to defend the post, but was
finally forced to abandon it, and retreat to Ulm, with the
loss of some thousands of men, and the greater part of
his cannon. On the other hand, it was stated that the
French suffered considerably from the grape-shot of the
enemy, though theywere amply recompensed by obtaining
possession of a fine mij;tary position . During these trans-
actions the centre of the French army passed the Danube
at Donawert, and the left wing still lower down, at In-
goldstadt. The latter afterwards took post at Pleffer-
hausen, on the road to Munich, under Marshal Berna-
dotte, while the main body proceeded across the river
Lech towards Augsburgh, which city then became the
French head quarters. By this succession of bold and
rapid movements the whole of the French army had now
placed itself between Vienna and the Austrian Genera!
Mack; and, flushed with these auspicious presages of

pressed his satisfaction to the grenadiers of General Oudinot's division,
than which a finer or more enthusiastic corps could not possibly exist."

Digitized by LjOOQIC

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 505

good fortune, those that followed will be viewed with less
astonishment.

The French approaching Ulm on all sides, on the 10th
of October, the enemy made a sortie from that city, and
attacked the division of General Dnpont. The battle,
the French official paper stated, was most obstinate. —
"Surrounded by twenty-five thousand men, these six
thousand brave fellows opposed them on all sides, and
took 1500 prisoners ! This corps," it was added, " should
not be astonished at any thing."

On the 13th, the Emperor went in person to the camp
before Ulm, and ordered the army of the enemy to be
invested. The first operation was to take possession of
the bridge and position of Elchingen : he then took up
his bead-quarters at the abbey of that place, and, on the
15th, at day-break, appeared in person before Ulm ; after
which Mu rat's corps and that of Marshal Lannes put
themselves in order of battle, to assault and force the
enemy's intrenchments before that city; The weather was
dreadful ; the troops were upv to their knees in mud : the
Emperor had not taken off his bpots for the preceding'
eight days !

Prince Ferdinand had marched off in the night towards
Biberach, leaving twelve battalions in the town and upon
the heights of Ulm, which were all taken, with a consi-
derable quantity of cannon. On the same day it was
announced in the bulletin that, since the commencement
of the campaign, the French had captured 20,000 pri-
soners, taken 30 pieces of cannon, and 20 standards, with
very small loss on their part. " If to the deaths," say
those accounts, " the desertions are to be added, the
Austrian army is already reduced to one half!"

It should be remarked that, in consequence of the pre-
ceding movements made by the French armies, the neu-
trality of Prussia was manifestly violated, as they had
not only passed through the territory of Anspach and
Bayreuth, but occupied those countries. This was a step

VOL. II.— 30. 3 t

Digitized by

Google

5(MJ TU£ UFB OI

next to morally impossible for tbe Austrian* to bate fore-
seen, and that movement, also, by shortening the route of
tbe French army, gave it incalculable advantages. In
the meanwhile the Archduke Ferdinand had no alterna-
tive left but that of e baring the fate of Mack and the rest
of tbe Austrian* shut up in Ulm, or of endeavouring to
force his way to Bohemia through Fran con i a with 26,009
men, where he boldly attempted the latter, crossed tbe
Danube and advanced to Nordlingen, at which plaoe eae.
whole division, amounting to about 13,000 men, was.
obliged to lay down its arms. The French pursued those
advantages, and again fell in with the remains of tbe.
Archduke's corps between Traun and Nuremberg, where
they made more prisoners, and took the Austrian artillery :
they then desisted from tbe pursuit, and the Arcbduke
made good the rest of his retreat with the wreck of his
forces, consisting for the most pari of cavalry.

It may now be proper to return to the situation of Ulm:
which city was so completely invested that qo possibility
was left for General Mack to escape, except by forcing a
passage through an army four times superior to his own ;
and such a measure was too dangerous to attempt. Bo*
naparte had, however, prepared the minda of hia soldiers
for much greater resistance, as, on tbe evening before
the surrender of that city, he issued the following striking

Address to his Army.

" Soldiers ! A month ago we were encamped on the
shores of the ocean opposite to England* but an. imptooa
league compelled us to 8y towards tbe Rhine.

" It is but a fortnight since we passed1 thai river ; and
the Alps of Wirtemberg, the Necker, the Danube, and
the Lech, those celebrated barriers of Qemumy,. have
not retarded our march a day, an hour, or an instant !<—
Indignation against a prince whom we, have twice fle-»
seated on his throne, when it depended entirely on. one.
pleasure to hurl him from bis seat, supplied ui with wings*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 507

The enemy's army, deceived by our manoeuvres and the
rapidity of oar movements, is completely turned ; it now
fights only for its safety ; it would gladly embrace any op-
portunity of escaping and retaining home ; bat it is too
late. The fortifications which it erected, at an immense
expense, along the Tiler, expecting that we should ad-
yance through the passes of the Black Forest, are be-
come useless, since we have approached by the plains of
Bavaria.

" Soldiers,! But for the army which is now in front of
you, we should this day have been in London : we should
have avenged ourselves for six centuries of insults, and
restored the freedom of the seas !

" But bear in mind to-morrow that you are fighting
against the allies of England ; that you have to avenge
yourselves on a perjured prince, whoseown letters breathed
nothing but peace at the moment when be was marching
his army against our ally; who thought us cowardly
enough to suppose that we should tamely witness hi*
passage of the Inn, his entry into Munich, and his aggres-
sion upon the Elector of Bavaria. He thought we were
occupied elsewhere ; let him, for the third and last time,
learn that we know how to be present in every place
where our country has enemies to combat.

44 Soldiers ! To-morrow will be a hundred times more
celebrated than the day of Marengo — I have placed the
enemy in the same position.

" Recollect that the most remote posterity will remark
the conduct of each of you on this memorable occasion !
Your progeny, five hundred years hence, who may place
themselves under those Eagles, around which we rally,
will know, in detail, every thing that your respective
corps shall achieve to-morrow, and the manner in which
your courage shall Confer on them eternal celebrity.—
This will constitute the perpetual subject of their con-
versation, and from age to age yod will be held up to the
admiration of future generations.

Digitized by

Google

508 * THE LIFE t)F

" Soldiers! If I wished only to conquer the enemy,
I should not have thought it necessary to make an appeal
to your courage, and your attachment to the country and
to my person ; but merely to conquer him is doing nothing
worthy either of you or your Emperor. It is necessary
that not a man of the enemy's army shall escape ; that
that government, which has violated all its engagements,
shall first learn its catastrophe by your arrival under the
walls of Vienna; and that, on receiving that fatal 'intel-
ligence, its conscience (if it listens to the voice of con*
science) shall tell it; that it has betrayed both its solemn
promises of peace, and the first of those duties bequeathed
by its ancestors; the power of forming the rampart of
Europe against the eruptions of the Cossacs.

" Soldiers, who have been engaged in the affairs of
Wertingen and Guntzburg! I am satisfied with your
conduct; every corps in the army will emulate you; and
I shall be able to say to my people — * Your Emperor and
your army have done their duty; perform yours:' and the
two hundred thousand conscripts, whom I have summoned,
will hasten, by forced marches, to reinforce our second
line.

(Signed) " Napoleon."

As we cannot possibly relate the affair of Ulm with
more brevity than that of the French bulletins, we shall
make extracts from a few of those documents, and occa-
sionally, add such information as we have derived from
other quarters.

" The day of Ulm was one of the most brilliant in the
annals of France. The Emperor might have taken the
place by assault, but twenty thousand men, defended by
fortifications and wet ditches, would have made a resist-
ance, and his desire was to save the effusion of blood.
General Mack, Commander-in-Chief of the army, was- in
the town : it is the fate of generals opposed to the Em-
peror to be taken in fortified places It will be recollect-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. &QQ

ed, that, after the brilliant movements on the Brenta,,old
Field-marsbal Wurmser was made prisoner in Mantua;
Melas was captured at Alexandria; and Mack at Ulm!
The German army was one. of the finest Austria bad. ever
displayed : it consisted of fourteen regiments of infantry,
of the army of Bavaria, as it is called; thirteen. regiments
from the Tyrol, and five regiments which had been sent
in waggons from Italy: altogether, thirty-two regiments
of infantry and fifteen of cavalry.

" The Emperor had reduced the army of Prince Fer-
dinand to the same situation in which he placed, that of
Melas. After having long hesitated, the latter adopted
the noble resolution of piercing through, the French army,
which occasioned the battle of Marengo. Mack. took
another resolution: Ulm is the point of union of a great
number of high roads; he had formed the plan of making
his divisions retreat by those routes, to re-assemble them
in Bohemia and the Tyrol. The divisions of Hobenzol-
lern and Werneck marched off by Heydenheim. .A
small division retreated by Memmingen ; but the Empe-
ror, on the 12th, hastened from* Ausburgh to Ulm, im-
mediately disconcerted the projects of the enemy, and
ordered the bridge and position of Elchingen to be
carried, which rendered everything secure.

"'As the Emperor was passing through a crowd of pri-
soners, an Austrian colonel expressed his astonishment
on beholding the Emperor of the French, wet, covered
with dirt, and more fatigued than the meanest drummer
in his army. One of hfa aids-de-camp having explained
to him what the Austrian officer said, Napoleon ordered
this answer to be made, 4 Your Master wished to. make
me recollect that I was a soldier; 1 hope he will allow
that the throne, and the imperial purple have not madq me
forget my first profession.'

" The appearance of the troops on the 15th was most
interesting. • For two days the rain had fallen in torrents ;
the whole army was dripping wet; the soldiers had no

Digttizec

Google

510 TO* LIFE OF

provisions distributed to them; and were up to their
knees in mad ! Bat the Emperor infiised fresh spirits into
his followers; and, at the moment he perceived whole
ooktmns in this state, he ordered 'Long lire the Em-
perorP to be cried.

" It is also mentioned, that Bonaparte replied to the
officers who sarroonded hint, and who expressed their
i surprise, how, in a moment of soch distress, the soldiers
coold forget all their wants, and appear only sensible to
the pleasure of seeing him — ' They are in the right; it is
to spare their Mood that I make them undergo such
dreadM fatigue/

"The Emperor, when the army occupied the heights
which -command Uhn, sent for Prince Lichtenstein,
Major-general, who was shot up in the town, to comma-
nicate to him, that he wished the place would capitulate;
telKng him, that, if be took it by storm, he should be
under the necessity of acting as As had done at Jaffa, where
the whole garrison was put to the sword; that it was one
of the melancholy rights of war, and he wished that both
himself and the brave Austrian nation were spared tbe
necessity of so dreadful an action ; that the place was not
tenable; and that it ought, therefore, to yield." The
Prince required that the officers and soldiers should
have liberty to return to Austria. — " I will grant it," re-
plied the Emperor, " to tbe officers, but not to tbe sol-
diers; for who will be my security that they will not be
made to serve again V9 Then, after having hesitated for
a moment, he added: " Well, then, I will rely upon tbe
word of Prince Ferdinand. If he is in the town, I wish
to give him a proof of my esteem, and I will grant to him
what you require of me, hoping that the Court of Vienna
will not break the word of one of its princes.'9 Upon M .
de Lichtenstein assuring him that- Prince Ferdinand was
not in the town, " Then," said the Emperor, " I do not
see who is to be my guarantee, that the soldiers I send
you back will not be employed again."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. fiH

" On the 15th, Marshal Bernadotte having poshed his
advanced posts as far as Wasserboorg and Haag, on the
high road of firannaa, took foor or five hundred prison*
era, and 17 pieces of cannon, of different sizes; having
thus captured, since bis entry to Munich, 1,500 prisoners,
10 pieces of cannon, 200 horses, and a quantity of bag-
gage, without the loss of a single man!

" The Emperor passed the Rhine on the 1st of Octo-
ber; the Danube on the 6th, at five o'clock in the morn-
ing; the Lech tbe«ame day, at half past three; when his
troops entered Munich on the 12th; while his advanced
guard arrived on the Inn on the 15th; and on the same
day he was master of Memmingen, and on the 17th of
Ulm.

" Napoleon took from the enemy, at the battles of
Wertingen, Gantzburgh, Ekbingen, as well as the con-
flicts of Memmingen and Ufan, and in the actions of
Albreck, Langenau^ and Neresbeiray 40,000 infantry and
cavalry; more than 40 stand of colours; a vast number of
cannon, baggage- waggons, &c; to accomplish which,
only marches and manoeuvres were employed !

In these partial aetions the loss of the French army
amounted to no more than 500 killed and 1,00ft wounded!*
It was a common remark, among the troops, that " The
Emperor has found out a new method of making war-
he only orders us to use our legs instead of our bayonets*"
Five-sixths of the soldiers never fired a shot, which
greatly mortified them ; but they all marohed incessantly,
and redoubled their activity when they had hopes of
overtaking the enemy.

" The eulogy of the army may be condensed in few
words— it is worthy of its chief.

" The Austrians may be considered as annihilated.
The Germans and Russians will be obliged to make
many levies of recruits to resist the French army, which
has destroyed a force of 100,000 men, without experien-
cing, we may say, any loss!"

Digitized by

Google

5]2 THE LIFE OF.

Thus, it appears, that Ulm was obliged to capitulate, as
General Mack did not take long to deliberate after tbe
summons had been sent him to surrender that place.*
Accordingly, on tbe 17th of October, he agreed to give
up tbe city, with all its. artillery and magazines, and that
the garrison, of about 80,000 men, after marching out
with all the honours of war, should lay down its arms;
the field-officers to be allowed to return to Austria upon
their parole, but the subalterns and soldiers to be sent
prisoners into France, there to remain until exchanged.
It was stipulated, however, that the Austrian General,
Mack, should be allowed the interval up to the 25th, at
twelve o'clock, before which he was not to be required to
carry the capitulation into effect; and then, if an Austrian,
or Russian army should arrive in sufficient force to
raise the blockade of Ulm, or before twelve at midnight
on the 25th, the garrison, and the commandant, should
be entirely released from the terms of such capitulation*

Impatient at the delay which those terms would have •
produced, and eager to lose no time in making head
against the Austrians and Russians, collecting on. the
Inn, Bonaparte invited General Mack to an interview
on the 19th : the result of which, was, that Mack, on.
the assurance of the French Marshal, Berthier, that no*
succour could possibly arrive before Ulm, signed an ad^
ditional article, by which he agreed to evacuate tbe place,
and surrender the army on the ensuing day, tbe 20th, oi*>
condition that the corps commanded by Marshal Ney*
consisting of twelve regiments of infantry, and four of
cavalry, should not advance beyond ten leagues from Ulm

# The person deputed by Napoleon to offer terms of capitulation
to General Mack, was General Count Rapp, who, in the 6th chap- of
his Memoirs, at page 26, &c. gives a detailed account of the two in-
terviews which took place upon that occasion; — which, owing to their
length, we are prevented from laying before our readers, notwith-
standing the interesting particulars they contain.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 5 13

and its environs, before the 25tb at .midnight, the period
when the former oapitnlation was to have expired !*

9 The folloming were the Terms of the Capitulations of Ulm, occu-
pied by the troops of his Majesty the Emperor of Austria and King
of Hungary, to the army of his Majesty the Emperor of France
and King of Italy.

We, Alexander Bertbier, Marshal of the empire, and Field Mar-
shal Baron Mack, &c. have agreed upon the following articles :

Art. I. The city of Ulm shall be surrendered to the French
army, with all the magazines and artillery — The half of the field of
artillery shall be retained by the Austrian troops— Refused.

Art. II. The garrison shall march out, with all the honours of
war, and, after filing off, lay down its arms. The field officers
shall be sent, on their parole of honour, to Austria, and the soldiers
and subalterns shall be sent into France, where they shall remain
until they are exchanged.— Refused.

Art. III. The officers and soldiers shall retain all the effects be-
longing to them. Answer : And also the regimental chests.— Agreed
to.

Art. IV. The sick and wounded Austrians shall be treated in
the same manner as the French sick and wounded. Answer : We
know the generosity of the French.

Art. V. If, nevertheless, there should appear by noon of the
25th October, 1805, an army capable of raising the blockade of Ulm,
the garrison of that fortress sballin such case be released from the pre-
sent capitulation, and at liberty to act as it may think fit. Answer :
If the blockade of Ulm shall be raised by an Austrian or Russian
army before midnight of the 25th of October, on whatever gate it
shall happen to be, the garrisons shall freeW depart with their arms,
artillery and cavalry, to join the troops which may have raised the
blockade. Agreed to.

Art. VI. One of the gates of Ulm (that of Stutgard) shall foe
given up to the French army, at seven o'clock to-morrow, as also
quarters sufficient for the accommodation of one brigade. Answer:
Yes.

Art. VII. That the French army shall be put in possession of
the grand bridge over the Danube, and also have a free communi-
cation between both banks. Answer : The bridge is burnt down,
but all possible means shall be taken to rebuild it.

Art. VIII. The service shall be regulated so as to prevent any
disturbance, and to maintain the best understanding. Answer : The
French and Austrian discipline afford the firmest guarantee in this
respect.

Art. IX. AH the cavalry, artillery, and waggon horses, belong,
ing to the Emperor of Austria and King of Hungary, sjjall be given
up to the French army.

Art. X. The 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, and 9th articles, shall not be car-
ried into execution until it please the commander-in-chief of the
Austrian troops ; provided, nevertheless, that the period of execution
shall not be later than twelve at noon, of the 25lh of October, 1805 :

vol. 11.— 30. 3 u

Digitized by LjOOQIC

514 ™E UFE OF

Mack's conduct, in this latter proceeding, can only be
accounted for either by folly or treachery ; bat, whatever

and, if by that time, an army should make its appearance, in sufficient
force to raise the blockade, the garrison shall, conformably to Art.
V. be at liberty to act as it may think proper.— Executed in duplicate
at Ulm, 17th October, 1805.

(Signed) Marshal Berthier.

Lieut-gen. Mack.

Additional article* of the cmpitulation of Uhn, proposed on the 19**.

Marshal Berthier* Major-general of the French army, hang em-
powered by the Emperor s command, gives his word or honour ; 1st,
That the Austrian army is this day on the other side of the Jon, and
that Marshal Bernadotte, with his army, has taken a position between
Munich and the Inn. 2d. Marshal Lannes, with his corps, is pur-
suing Prince Ferdinand, and was yesterday at Aalen. 3d. That
Prince Murat, with his corps, was yesterday at Nordlingen ; that the
Lieutenant-generals Werneck, Baillet, Honensollern, and seven other
generals, yesterday capitulated at the village of Trotzelfigen. 4th.
That Marshal Soult is posted between Ulm and Bregentz, observ-
ing the way to the Tyrol, and that there is, consequently, no possi-
bility of succour arriving before Ulm. That Lieutenant-general and
Quarter-master Mack, giving credit to the above declaration, is ready
to evacuate Ulm to-morrow, on the following conditions :— That the
whole corps of Marshal Ney, consisting of twelve regiments of in-
fantry, and four regiments of horse, shall not quit the city of Ulna,
and its environs, to tne distances of ten leagues, before the, 35th Octo-
ber at midnight, the period when the capitulation is to expire.—
That Marshal Berthier and Baron Von Mack agree on the above in-
serted articles. Consequently, the whole Austrian army shall defile
to-morrow, at three in the afternoon, before the Emperor of the
French, with all the honours of war: it shall lay down its arms, and
the officers, who reserve them, shall receive passports to go by the
two roads of Kempten to Austria, and of Bregent to the Tyrol.—
Executed in duplicate at £lchingen, the 19th October, 1805.

(Signed) Mar silu. Berthier.

LiEUT-GBir. Mack,

In order to commemorate the great exploits performed by his
army > Napoleon issued the following order, dated:

Elchingen. From my Imperial Camp, 1Ut of October, 1805.
Napoleon Emperor of the French and King of Italy.

ConsiderUfc that the grand army has obtained, by its courage and
its devotion, results which could not be hoped for," but after a cam-
paign ; and wishing to give it a proof of our imperial satisfaction, we
Kave decreed, and decree as follows :

Art. I. The month Vendemiaire, year 14, shall be reckoned as
a campaign, to alt the individuals composing the grand army. This

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON 30NAPARTE. filfi

were bis motives, the Austrian garrison, in compliance
with the new capitulation, marched oat on the day follow-
ing; and, after filing before the French Emperor, laid
down its arms and surrendered prisoners of war. Na-
poleon, who had taken an advantageous station to be-
hold this movement while the troops were retiring, ad-
dressed the officers to the following effect : " Gentle-
men ! your master wages an unjust war : I tell yon plainly,
I know not for what I am fighting, I know not what can
be required of me ; my resources are not confined to the
present army. These prisoners of war, now on their way
to France, will observe the spirit which animates my
people, and with what eagerness they flock to my stand-
ard. At a single word, 300,000 volunteers crowd to my co-
lours, and, in six weeks, become Soldiers ; whereas, your
recruits only march from compulsion, and do not become
good soldiers till the expiration of several years* Let me
advise my brother, the Emperor, to hasten the ratification
of a peace. AH states must' have an end ; and, in the pre-
sent crisis, be must feel serious alarms, lest the extinction
of the dynasty of Lorraine should be at hand." The Empe-
ror concluded by saying," I desire nothing further upon the
continent ; I want ships, colonies, and commerce ; and it is
as much your interest as mine that I should have them."

General Mack is reported to have stated, in reply, '< That
the Emperor of Germany had not wished for war, bnt had
been compelled to that measure by Russia/' " If such
be the case," said Bonaparte, " you are no longer a
power." Several other Austrian generals are stated to
have expressed their dislike to a war which admitted a
Russian army into the heart of their country, when the
French Emperor treated those officers with civility ; and,

month shall be so charged to the state iu the valuation of subsistence
and military services.

Art. II. Oar ministers of war, and of the public treasury, are
charged with the execution of this decree.

* Napoleon.

Digitized by

Google

516 THE LIFE OF

to console tbem, observed, " That the chances of war-
fare were various, and that conquerors might be con.
qnered in their torn."

By the adoption of a phrase, till then unknown among-
generals or historians, the exploits of a few days
were denominated a campaign: the following address
was also regarded as a complete novelty :

Imperial head-quarters at Elchingen, October, 21.

" Soldiers of the grand army ! In a fortnight we have
finished a campaign : we have accomplished oar purpose :
we have expelled the troops of the house of Austria
from Bavaria, and re-established our Ally in the sove-
reignty of his states. That army, which, with equal os-
tentation and imprudence, had posted itself on our fron-
tlet^ is annihilated. But what does this signify to Eng-
land ? her purpose is accomplished ; we are no longer at
Boulogne, and the amount of hot subsidy will thereby
be neither encreased nor diminished.

" Of 100,000 men, who composed that army, 60,000
are prisoners ; they will go to take the place of our con-
scripts in the labours of our fields. Two hundred pieces
of cannon (their whole park), ninety stands of colours,
and all their generals are in our bands ; there have not
' escaped of this army 15,000 men. Soldiers ! I had an-
nounced to you a great battle ; but thanks to the bad com-
binations of the enemy, 1 have been able to obtain the same
success without running any risk; and, what is unex-
ampled in the history of nations, so important a result
has not diminished our force by more than 1,600 men 1

" Soldiers ! You owe this success to yqur unbounded
confidence in your Emperor ; to yoor patience in support-
ing fatigues and privations, of every description, and to
your singular intrepidity.

" But we will not stop here. You are impatient to
commence a second campaign. We are about to make
that Russian army, which the gold of England has trans-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 517

ported ' from the extremities of the universe, undergo the
same fate.

" In this contest is more particularly implicated the
honour of the infantry : it is that which will, a second
time, decide the question, already resolved in Switzerland
and Holland — whether the French infantry be the second
or the first in Europe? Here there are no generals in
combating against whom, I can have any glory to ac-
quire.—All my care shall be to obtain the victory with
the least possible effusion of blood— my soldiers are my
children.

" Given at my Imperial Camp, Elchingen, 29tb Ven-
demiere, 14th year, (21st of October, 1805.)"

Respecting the violation of the Prussian territory by
the French, it does not seem that the Austrians were by
any means tender on that subject, when they were closely
pressed. The tenth bulletin gives the following account
of its violation by the Austrian Duke Ferdinand.

" Immediately on the capitulation of General Wer-
neck, near Nordlingen, Prince Ferdinand, with a body
of 1,000 cavalry, and some artillery, had moved forwards,
when he threw himself into the Prussian territory, and
was proceeding by Gunzenbausen towards Nuremberg. —
Prince Murat pursued him, without delay, and succeeded
in overtaking him, upon which occasion an action en-
sued, on the road from Forth to Nuremburg on the even-
. ing of the 21st. The remainder of the park of artillery
and the whole of the baggage were taken. The horse
chasseurs of the imperial guard covered themselves with
glory ; they overthrew every thing that opposed them ;
they charged Mack's regiment of cuirassiers, while the
two regiments of carabineers also sustained their repu-
V> tation."

It is now necessary to ad vert, to the proceedings of

• N* the army of Italy, under Marshal Massena, against the

\ - v Archduke Charles, as the movements .of the latter were

Digitized by

Google

618 TUE LIFE OF

subsequently directed to support the cause of Austria in
her own dominions.

Marahal Massena having been strongly reinforced,
had te oppose a well-organised Austrian army, ander it*
favourite commander. But there, as well as in Germany,
no time was to be lost, as a combined force of Russians
and British were collected at Corfu and Malta, for the
purpose of making a descent upon Italy ; while another
army, of Pussians, Swedes, and English, was prepared
in the North of Germany, to invade Hanover, or attempt
other enterprises, as occasion might offer. The Arch*-
duke and General Massena being in the face of each
other, on the opposite sides of the river Adige, waited
only for the signal of attack ; and, on the 17th of Octo-
ber, the latter prepared to force the passage of that river ;
Ids army amounting to 90,000 ; while the Auatrians,
under the Archduke, were estimated at 75,000 men.
In consequence of the preparations made on the part of
the French, early on the morning of the 18th, Massena
caused two false attacks to be made, one on their right,
the other on the left, while, with the centre of his army,
he attempted to force the bridge of Verona, which was
barricadoed, and some of its arches cut. These impedi-
ments the French overcame with great fortitude, and
twenty-four companies of light troops, selected from thfe
divisions of Gardanne and Dnhesme, traversed the river,
who were soon followed by the whole division, and shortly
after, by the residue of the army. The Austrian* made
a gallant resistance, but were obliged to retire to the
heights, at seme distance, where they hud mtrenehments;
there, however, the attack was renewed; and, if the
French gained any advantage, it waa so inconsiderable,
that they judged it expedient to reccoss the Adige and
occupy their former ground. The Austrians lost seven
pieces of cannon, eighteen waggons, and about 3,000
prisoners, while numbers were killed and wounded en
both sides.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 510

On the 20th, the French renewed the attack, and again
passing the Adige, mounted and took possession of
the heights of Val Pantena, surrounded the castle of Ban
Pelici, and compelled the Austrians to evacuate Venoret-
to; bat advancing on the road of St. Michael, they met
with serious opposition from the Aastrians, though the
latter were, at length, driven back with the loss of
1,600 prisoners and two pieces of cannon.

Hitherto it was thought Massena had been rather
confined in bis operations, not caring to advance too far
before he received information of the state of the cam- .
paign in Germany ; however, he took post within a few
miles of Caldiero, near which the Archduke was strongly
posted. Nothing material occurred for several days;
when Hassena, having received the account of the sur-
render of General Mack's army at Ulm, began to press
forward with the utmost diligence, to execute the plans
of co-operation which had been designed for him: ac-
cordingly, on the 80th of October, he commenced a very
vigorous attack upon the whole line of the Archduke's
army; General Mollitor formed the left, the centre was
commanded by General Gardanne, and the right by Ge-
neral Dnhesme. The action began upon the left, and
the three successive attacks were bravely resisted by the
Austrian*, who were, at length, forced to retire to the ad*
jacent heights, when the battle was renewed, and twenty-
four battalions of grenadiers, with some other regiments,
were ordered by the Archduke to advance against the
enemy: both sides fought with great fury; the French
cavalry, at length, made some impression by their re*
peated charges; the Austrian grenadiers fonght with the
bayonet, in which they were assisted by the fire of 30
pieces of cannon; notwithstanding which, they were,
ultimately, driven from the field, with the loss of upwards
8,000 prisoners. The Archduke demanded a suspension
of arms, in order to bury the dead, which was granted:
hut this was not the only loss sustained, as a column of

Digitized by

Google

520 TUE LlFE 0F

5,000 men, which had been detached from General Bo-
senburgh's corps, with the design of falling upon the rear
of the French, was, by the issue of the battle, completely
cnt off. General Hellinger, who commanded, at first
manifested the intention of defending himself, and even
compelled a regiment, sent against him, to take shelter
under the walls of a castle; but he was obliged to desist;
for Massena having repaired, in person, to the spot, and
four battalions of French grenadiers haying surrounded
the column, the Austrian general entered into a capitula-
tion, and laid down his arms.

Thus it appears that the Archduke, being sensible of
his inability to resist the French in that quarter; and, no
doubt, being anxious to relieve the Capital of Vienna,
from the danger with which it was threatened, from the
rapid advances of the grand army, under Napoleon, came
to the determination of making a positive retreat. In
the meantime, General St. Cyr having evacuated the
kingdom of Naples, conformable to a convention entered
into with his Sicilian Majesty, reinforced the army of
Massena with 25,000 men*

Napoleon, having ordered the states belonging to
the House of Austria to be taken possession of, and
the Austrian prisoners to be marched into France,
with the demolition-of the fortifications of Ulm and Mem*
mingen, set out, with the greatest part of his army, for
Augsburg, on his route for Bavaria, when he ordered
bridge-heads to be raised on the bridges over the Lech,
and magazines to be formed beyond them. On the even-
ing of the 24lh, the Emperor reached Munich, the Bava-
rian capital, where be was joined by Prince Marat, and
received great, honours. The latter had left a division
of the troops, with whom he had pursued the Archduke
Ferdinand, on the other side of the Danube, under Bar-
raguay D'Hillier and General Mortier, and ordered them
to observe the motions of the Aostrians. While Napo-
leon was at Munich, the disposition of the French army

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. gfcl

was thus Arranged : the Emperor, at the bead of the main
body, advanced towards Vienna, having in kis front a
corps of Austrian*, which bad been just reinforced by 4he
.first column df the Russian army. To protect his flanks
and rear, he ordered the division under Mortier to watch
the motions of the Aostrians in Bohemia, ander the Arch-
duke Ferdinand, by which his left was secured; his right
wail protected by Marshal Ney, who mounted* the Xiech
up to the confines of the Tyrol, and checked the Austrians
in thfet country, under the Archduke '- John. » In addition
to these corps, the division of Marshal Augereau, who
had, subsequently, passed the Rhine, occupied the post*
of Swabia, in the environs of the Lake of > Constance;
thus securing himself against any attempt that might have
been made from the Vorarlberg, or to resist any Prussian
force that might cross the Danube after the violation
of the territory of Anspach, previously mentioned.

The centre of the French army bad now reached the
Irin, where the Austrians and Russians were posted, and,
on the 28th, effected a passage over that river, in the
vicinity of Brannau. Marshal Bernadotte, who had ad-
vanced by Wafferburg, proceeded, on the 27th, to Alt-
ingmarkt; there he found the bridge broken down, and a
strong fort raised to oppose his progress ; but a corps of
French and Bavarians, who bad proceeded by Roth to
Rotherheim, found the passage of the River more practi-
cable at that place, and succeeded in ' crossing. The
enemy was, inconsequence, obliged to retreat; when that
bridge, equally with the one at Altingmarkt, were re-
paired.

Davoust's corps, which took the route by Freying, after
some opposition,pa8sed the bridge at Multdorf, while Murat,'
with the cavalry, traversed those at Octing and MarchieL
The Austrians 'and Russians, finding their force inade-
quate to any effectual opposition, retreated, step by step/
towards Vienna, where all the citizens, capable of bear-
ing arms, were embodied, and a proclamation issued, in

vol. ii.— 30. 3 x

Digitized by

Google

£22 THE UfE OF

which the Emperor of Austria made a boast of " (resting
in the justice of his cause, and the love and energy of
twenty-five millions of people, aided by the powerful as-
sistance of his Russian auxiliaries!" The Emperor of
Austria, however, did not hint at the number of women
and ehfldren among those twenty-five millions of souls;
the event however showed that he might have confided his
eaase to those with as much effect as to their fathers,
their husbands, or even his powerful Russian auxiliaries {
The right bank of the Inn being thus left undefended,
Marshal Lannes entered Branna* on the 39th, a place of
considerable strength, with vast magazines of artillery,
powder, and military stores, which proved a seasonable
supply to the French army: Napoleon arrived on the
90th, and fixed his bead-quarters at the same place.
From thence Bernadotte was detached to the right, to oc-
cupy SalUburg, so as to intercept the communication
between the army under the Archduke Charles, in the
Venetian territory, and the Austro*Russians. A corps
of 6,000 Aostrians, stationed near Saltsburg, retreating
to Oells, was pursued by the French advanced guard,
under Kelknrmaa, and overtaken near Pasting; where,
notwithstanding its strength and. position, that force re-
tired, after losing some hundreds of prisoners. Prince
Murat, with his cavalry, was the first to overtake the
Austrian rear guard (about 6,000 strong), posted on the
heights of .Hied : they were charged with great impetuosity
by the French horse, and forced to give way, after which,
however, the enemy rallied, to protect their baggage, lint
having sustained an obstinate conflict, were put to flight,
leaving four or five hundred prisoners, Murat, continu-
ing the pursuit on the 31st, again fell in with the enemy's
rear near Lambaeh, where, in consequence of a show of
resistance, the allies lost a few pieces of ejtnpon, and
about 400 men, 100 of whom were Russians. It waa
now the object of the allies to secure a position behind
t|ie Ems; but Prince Murat took possession of Oells oa

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. £4<J

the 1st of November, and, en the same day, General
Melbaud, with bis reserve of cavalry, entered lati\if
where he found considerable magazines. The main body
of the French army was at the heels of the advanced
guard: Marshal Davoust approached Styr, on the Ems;
and Napoleon, whose head quarters were lit Laybdch}
made his arrangements for driving the enemy froito the
banks of the Ems, the last line of defence Which reinained
to them between that river and Vienna* However* as
they were aware of the dispositions made for .taming
their left flank, and observing the enemy approaching
their front with boldness, they abandoned the defence of
the Ems and retired slowly towards that city. The
French army lost no time in crossing the river, and
pressed forward With eagerness towards the Austria*
capital, which was in a state of great consternation and
confusion. The Russians made a stand on the heights of
Anstettin, in order to resist the progress of the Frauett,
wheta they were attacked by Prinoe Marat's cavalry, and
General Oudinot's grenadiers, and, finally, -obliged to
quit the field, leaving 1,000 killed, wounded, anti prison-
ers. Thus the Russians, whose hardiness and vfclout htfd
been the constant theme of the English newspapers,
proved as weak and inconsiderable as their allies, when
opposed to the superior activity and military skill of the
French! <- .

On the ?th of November, at night, the Austrian fcourit *
Giolay was sent to the Wench head-quarters, to try if
some respite could not be obtained* under the idea of ii
negotiation. Napoleon's heftd-qtiarfer* were at Lihtaj
when that nobleman presented himself, with proposals in
the name of the Emperor of Germany, and his allies* to
conclude ah armistice of a few weeks, as a .preliminary
step towards a negotiation for a general pacification.
Bonaparte expressed his readiness to accede to the ar-
mistice, on condition that die Austrian monarch would
cause (he allied trodps to return home, the Bungariah

Digitized by

Google

524 ' THE L*FE OF

levy to be-disbanded, and the Dogby of Venice and ibo
Tyrol to be occupied by the French army. With tbat
reply Count Gialay retained to his court, and Napoleon
continued his plan of operations.

: Mural. had already. restored the bridges over the Ipa,
and oh the .7th established his head-quarters at the ce-
lebrated Abbey of Moelk, his advanced posts, being
poshed io St. Pollen. Mortier bad coptrived, with part
of his corps, to keep pace, on the left .bank of the Da-
nube, with the main army on the opposite shore, so as to
render it material assistance. Davpast . also advanced
from Steyr by Naydhoffen, Marieozel, and Lilieafeldt,
with the project of overtaking the left of the allies, sta-r
tionefl at. St; Polten; whilst the French Emperor, witfc
the centre, moved on to attack the front.

On. the 8th the French attacked a division of Austrian*,
under General. Meer veldt, near Marienzel, on the road to
Vienna, and took three standards, 16 pieces of cannon,
and 3,000 prisoners, when the. remains of that Austrian
corps advanced on the route for Hungary in great haste.
. The French Emperor's bead-quarters being at the
Abbey of. Moelk,* a deputation, from the magistrate^ of

# The following note, transcribed from the twenty-first bulletin,
dated from Moelk, November the 10th, will make the reader fully
acquainted with the then situation of affairs in Germany. ''The
Abbey of Moelk, in which the Emperor is lodged, is one of the
finest m Europe. There is not, either in France or in Italy, any con-
vent or abbey which can compare with it. It is in a strong position* and
commands the Danube. It was one of the principal posts of the Ro-
mans, which was called the Iron House, buut by the Emperor Com-
modus. The vaults and cellars of the abbey were found full of excel-
lent Hungarian wine, which was of. great service to the army, a long time
in want of this article.* But we *are now in the wine-country! there
is* a great deal of it in the vicinity of Vienna. The Emperor order-
ed that a particular safe-guard should be stationed at the Chateau of-
Lusiciioss, aftttle :c6untry residence of the Emperor of Austria, on
the left bajik of the Danube. The approaches to Vienna on th» side
bear no resemblance to the ordinary, avenues of great capitals. From
X.intz to Vienna there is but one made road, a great number of rivers,
such as the Inn, the Eslaph, the Moelk, the Tragen, &c. ; wttfch have
but bad bridges of wood. The country is covered with forests of fir.
At every step there are impregnable positions, in which the enemy

Digitized by

Google

NAt'OLEON BONAPARTE. 525

Vienna wailed upon him; imploring him to treat tMe
city with lenity, as the unfortunate, inhabitants were pot
the cause of war! He .replied, that they mii9t take care
not to open their gates to the Austrian* or Russians, i>ut
only to the French army.

On the 7th of November, the Austrian Emperor 6pd«%
ing that, his whining proclamations were treated by the
people as they deserved, conceived it best to retire,.. and
leave them to the mercy Qf his enemies. He, therefore,
set out with his court, to Brunn, in Moravia, while the
great mass of. the people waited patiently for the. Frenob,
Tired of the war, oppressed with taxes,, find despairing for
yvant of trade, no change could be for the worse, and
might prove for the better. Besides, they hated the
Russians, who were agents of " religious and regular
governments," for their barbarity, and in consequence the
French took possession of the. Imperial capital, without
firing a gun.

The most, respectable of the inhabitants formed a, na-
tional guard, under the direction of the French General,

endeavoured in vain to make a stand. They had always to dread
that they would be uncovered, and turned by the columns which
manoeuvred beyond their flanks: From the inn to this place, the -
Panube is superb, its points of view are picturesque, its navigation
down the current is rapid and easv. All the letters intercepted speak
only of the frightful chaos which Vienna presents. The war has been
undertaken by the Austrian cabinet, contrary to the opinion of all the
Princes of the Imperial Family. But Colloredo, led by his wife,
who, though a Frenchwoman, has a mortal hatred to her country ;
Colloredo, accustomed to tremble at the very name of a Russian, in
the persuasion that every thing ought to give way before diem ; and
to whom it is, besides, possible, that the agents of England may have
found means to introduce themselves; and in fine, that wretch Mack,
who had already so great a part in the renewal of the second coali-
tiou: — These are the influences which have been stronger than the
representations of all prudent men, and of all the members of the
Imperial Family. There is not an individual down to the meanest
citizen, or the lowest subaltern officer, who does not feel that this
war is advantageous only to the English: that they have fought only
for them ; that they are the planners of the misfortunes of Europe,
in the same manner as, by their monopoly, they are the authors,
of the excessive high price of goods. "

Digitized by

Google

586 ™E LIFE of

who was appointed governor of the oity; so that public
tranqatHtty was not in the least interrupted.

The French advanced guard first appeared befort
Vienna on the 11th, the next day the main body arrived,
and was lodged in the suburbs, where their enemies ac-
knowledged they conducted themselves in an orderly and
quiet manner; but they did not enter the city till the 13th*
when they found it totally evacuated by the military, and
the inhabitants mounting guard.

Marat, who commanded the advanced troops, marchfed
through the city, and passed the bridge over the Dafanbe
without resistance. There was, indeed, a corps of Aua-
trians stationed, under Prince Amempecg, at the bridge*
for the purpose of destroying it in case of necessity,
preparations being made for so doing. Marat, aware of
that circumstance, rode np at full speed to the officer,
and assured him, on his word of honour, that an armistice
had been concluded, by which artifice he prevailed upon
his credulity so far as to prevent the destruction of the
bridge, which might have considerably retarded the ad^
vance of the French army into Moravia.

On the 14th, the divisions of Marshals Soult and Davoost
crossed the river, treading in the footsteps of Marat, part
of the latter corps, however, being detached down the
Danube towards Presburgh, in Hungary. On the same day.
Napoleon made his entry into Vienna, and employed a
great portion of the ensuing night in visiting his outposts
beyond the Datiube, after which he retired to the Imperial
Palace of Schoenbrunn, which he had selected for his re*
sidence.*

• We select the following note from toe 24th bulletin, dated Scho-
enbrunn, November the 15th, as elucidating the events of that period;
" The palace Of Schoenbronn, in which the Emperor resides, was
built by Maria Theresa, whose portrait is to be found in almost every
apartment. In the room in which the Emperor is employed, there u
a marble statue of this sovereign. The Emperor, on seeing it, re-
marked, that if that great Queen were living, she wouM not silo**
herself to be influenced by the intrigues of such a woman as Madame

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. £$7

The French found, at Vienna* immense magazines of
military stores of all kinds, ammunition in abundance,
and a vast quantity of artillery of every description. The
number of omskete fonnd in the arsenal was very great,
15,000 of which Bonaparte presented to the Elector of
Jtavaria ; at the same time causing to be restored to that
Prinoe the artillery taken on former occasions from the
Electorate; great requisitions of cloth and wine .were also
made for the supply of the army. On the same day, the
Emperor received a deputation of the citizens, to whom
he gave assurances of his protection.
, On the 15tb, Bonaparte having appointed General
Clarke governor of Upper and Lower .Austria, traversed
Yiejina to join the army, whioh was fast advancing into
Moravia. The Russians, who had been driven back
from Brannaa to St. Polten,* crossed the Danube at

Colloredo. Encircled as she always was, with the chief persons of her
kingdom, she would have known the inclination of her people; she
would not have had her provinces ravaged by the Cossacks and
Moscovites; she would not have consulted, in order to form her de-
termination of going to war with France, a courtier like Cobentael*
who, too well informed respecting court intrigues, dreads to oppose
a foreign woman, invested with a pernicious authority, which she
abases ; a scribe like Collembach.; and a man, in short, so universally
detested as Lamberti. She would not have given the command of
her army to such men as Mack, appointed, not by the choice of the
Sovereign, not by the confidence of the nation, but by England and
Russia. This unanimity of opinion is, in fact, an extrorainarv cir-
cumstance, in a nation entirely adverse to the decision of the
court. The citizens of every olass, the enlightened men, thawery
princes themselves, oppose the war. It is said, that Prince Charles,
on his setting out for Italy, wrote to the Emperor, to show him the
imprudence of his determination, and foretold him the ruin of the
monarchy/'

* Count Rapp, in his Memoirs, at p. 54, gives the following inter-
esting anecdote respecting Napoleon: — "We were at St. rolten;
Napoleon was riding on horseback on the Vienna road, when he per-
ceived an open carriage advancing, in which were seated a priest and
a lady bathed in tears. The Emperor was dressed as usual, in the
uniform of a Colonel of the Chasseurs of the guard. The lady did not
know him. He inquired the cause of her affliction, and whither she
was going! * Sir/ she replied, 'I have been robbed at about two
leagues from hence by a party of soldiers, who have kilted my gar-
dener. I am going to request that your Emperor will grant me a guard.
He once knew my fainiy well, and lay under obligations to them.'

Digitized by

Google

528 THB LIFE OF '

Krems, where, on the 9th, they were encotfolered on the
left bank of that river, by Mortier's corps, consisting of
abbot 5,000 men; and on the 10th, in the vicinity of
Diernsteiii, the Russians being attacked, were forced to
retire from Weiskirchen to Stein.

The Russians, in their torn, to the number of 20,000,
attacked the French early the ensuing morning, when,
notwithstanding their superior numbers, the latter re-
pulsed them, after repeated attempts. The Russian
general, however, bad calculated on another manoeuvre ;
having detached two columns, by a difficult pass, to turn
the enemy. This plan partly succeeded, as Mortier was
obliged to cut his way through the Russian lines, which
was accomplished with great difficulty and considerable
loss in killed and prisoners, while General Mortier him-
self was severely wounded. The loss on the side of the
Russians was equally important, particularly owing to the
death of lieutenant-general Smedt, an officer of great
repute in the Austrian service, acting as quarter-master-
general to the Russian army, who had been much in tbe
confidence of the Archduke Charles. The Russians,
after this last affair, fell back upon Brunn, to wait for
reinforcements, under general Boxhovoden ; but, as tbe
particulars of this most extraordinary action, in the sab-
joined note, were written by a French officer of rank at
Vienna, who was with the army, they are entitled to a
proportionate degree of credit**

'Your name?' inquired Napoleon: < De Branny,' answered the
lad j ; ' I am the daughter of M. de Marboeuf, formerly governor of
Corsica.' ' I am delighted to meet you, Madam/ exclaimed Napo-
leon, with the most charming frankness ; ' and to have an opportunity
of serving you. I am the Emperor !' The lady was amazed. Na-
poleon consoled her, and directed her to wait for him at head quarters.
He treated her with the utmost attention, granted her a piquet o£
chasseurs of his guard, and sent her away happy and contented."

* " Bonaparte/' observes the writer in question, " having made-
60,000 prisoners, marched against Vienna; the detachment of Kien-
mayer tied to Hungary, when the empress and her children sought

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 529

After this the French army continued to advance so
rapidly, that the Emperor of Austria and his court de-
termined to remove from Brunn to Olmutz. Previous,
however, to his departure,, on the 13th, he thooght proper
to, try the effect of another proclamation, wherein he told
his unhappy people, that the demands of the French
Emperor being inadmissible, and having refused an ar-
mistice, nothing remained for him to do, but trust to those
resources that might be found in the fidelity and strength
of his people, united to the undiminished forces of his
high allies, the Emperor of Russia and the King, of

refuge \ the Russians then passed the Danube at Lintz and Krems,
and cut down the bridges ; after which they took the road to Mo-
ravia. Francis II. was with them, as well as his brothers, who were
witnesses of the devastations committed by their allies, in a country
which they had marched to defend. Napoleon sent three divisions
to the left of the Danube, in boats, to pursue the Russians ;' who;
knowing our inferiority, faced about against the division of Mortier,
only 5,000 strong, which had overtaken them at Stein. It was sur-
rounded by thirty battaljpns, and must either surrender at discretion
to a ferocious enemy, or devote itself to glory : the troops then
formed into a close mass, and opened themselves a passage, sword in
hand, over the bodies of their enemies, who left 4,000 men on the
field of battle, among whom was General Suiedt. That day decided
the question between the French and Russian infantry ; tor several
hours the artillery moved down columns, and whole. ranks fell under
the bayonets of the combatants, who refused quarter on both sides : '
we had, towards noon, forced back a Russian battalion to the Da-
nube, and pushed them so close, that the enemy threw themselves on
their knees in the water, crying "prisoners .'" We, in consequence,
left off killing, when the Russians resuming their arms, fell upon us
With frightful cries of " houra 1 houra?9 (kill) and forced us at
several points ; they were massacred by a reserve, very dexterously
left behind by the general.

** Towards night, for want of cartridges, they fought wjtb stones— in
many places the battle became individual ; some French soldiers,
being closely pressed, threw themselves into the houses of a small
village on the held of battle, and there intrenched themselves ; the
enemy set fire to the' place, and many brave fellows perished in the
flames. If our loss was only 2,000 men, we owe it to our own supe-
riority in the art of occupying positions ; and, particularly, the prin-
ciple of sustaining the most rude shocks by corps of reserve, without
which you never can moke good retreats , and if you are victorious,
you 'may lose all in a* minute, because violent shocks throw the con-
querors, as well as the vanquished) into disorder, of which he who
has a fresh corps profits." *• •

VOL.11.— 30. 3Yn

Digitized by

Google

530 THE LIFE OF

Prussia; and to persist in such determination, an til the
French Eriiperor should consent to conditions, consistent
"with the honour and independence of a great state.

By the evening of the 14th so many Austrian corps
fcad been routed, at different points, that it was observed,
Wniokt all th6 German artillery #as in ttte hands 6f the
tftiertij. By that time, also, Marshal Bernadotte, having
teade a circuit to the right by Saltztairgh, and the con-
tort of Hungary, passed the Danube to join the main
*my.

On the 15th, Marat and Lannes came up with the
Russian forces at Holbrunn, who, being charged by the
French cavalry, abandoned their ground, leaving some of
their baggage behind, lie Russian general findlhg
himself hard pressed, and desirous of gaining a little
time, had recourse to a device, in which he wtes autho-
rized by the stratagem previously resorted to by Murat,
in passing the bridge at Vienna. The bearer of a flag
of truce presented himself at the French advanced posts,
and Baron Winzingerode, aid-de-camp to the Emperoir
of Russia, demanded leave for the Russian army to ca-
pitulate, and separate from the Aostrians. This was a
1 ^pretext too specious not to be listened to ; and Murat,
the author of the above-mentioned deception, communi-
cated the information to Bonaparte, who, soon suspecting
the ruse, refused to agree to the proposed terms, on the
grounds, that a Russian was not duly authorised to treat,
at the same time declaring, that if the Emperor of Rus-
sia would ratify the convention, he would accede, upoti
which the French army continued to advance.

The Rassians, during this parley, were occupied in, ma-
king their preparations to retreat, and had effected some
progress when they were attacked the next day near Gun-
tersdorff. The loss on both sides was considerable, added to
Which, the Russians left behind ihem 2,000 prisoners, antl
bad nearly as many in killed and wounded* having also lost
twelve pieces of cannon, and as many baggage-waggons r

Digitized by

Google

NAPOJ^Q^ BONAPARTE. $gj

among the wounded French officers were General On-
dinot and bis two aides-de-camp. On the 17th, the
French head -quarters were at Znaim, where they found
the sick of the Russian army abandoned to their fate.
On the 18tb, General Sebastiani succeeded in cutting
off a part of the Russian rear-guard, and made nearly
2,000 prisoners ; and, on the same day, Prince Marat
entered Brunn, a regular fortress, capable of sustaining
a siege, and welf supplied with ammunition and provi-
sions.

On the 20th, Bonaparte removed to Brunn, where he
received a deputation from the states of Moravia, with
the bishop at its head. He then caused the citadel to
bo taken possession of, in which were found 6,000 stand
of arms, and a considerable quantity of ammunition.

The next advance of the French was from Brunn to
Olmutz. — On the road, the Russians again attempted to
stop their progress, having co\Ie$ted all theft cavalry,^ to
the number of 6,000 troops, when the French horse vigor-
ously attacked them, and although they maintained their
ground during the whole day, they fell back on the draw-
ing-in of night.

Brunn being put into a better state, of defence, the
French army did not move for some days, at the expi»
ration of which, it advanced and took a position near
Wishau, in face of the allied army, which was posted
between that place and Olmutz, on the spot that gave
birth to the evefr memorable defeat, experienced at the
battle of Austerlitz.

Digitized by

Google

532 TH£ WE OF

CHAP. XV.

Operations of the French Army, after the Capture of Vienna-*-
Thirteenth Bulletin, giving an ample Detail of the Affair
at Austerlitz — Anecdote of General Rapp,, oscf other inte-
resting Particulars relative to the Battle— Thirty-first Bulr

. tetin of the Grand Army, made public at the Theatre From*
cais at Parts— Napoleon's Order of the Day to his Army,
previous to the Conflict at Austerlitz— The Emperor* s Pro-
clamations after the Victory— Results of the Defeat of the
Russians, and Preliminaries of Peace signed, with Napq-
leon's Proclamation to his Soldiers, previous to his Depart
turefrom Schoenbrunn to the French Capital.

Upon the explore of Vienna, Marshal Davoust had
marched to Presburgh, to attempt a negotiation with
the Archduke Palatine, for the neutrality of Hungary,
but did not succeed, in consequence of which Davoust
rejoined the main army. The forces of France and the
allies are said to have been nearly equal, but the former
were flushed with success and superior to their oppo-
nents in skill, confidence, and discipline. The French,
according to their adversaries, bad 105,000 men, and the
two armies, in presence of each other, were determined
to make a stand ; when, on the 29tb of November, Counts
Stadion and Giulay were deputed, on the part of the
Emperor of Austria, to open a negotiation, while Count
Haugwitz, the Prussian minister, repaired to offer bis
master's mediation, who, it was conjectured, felt strongly
disposed to take part with the allies against France*
Napoleon appeared to listen to the proposals, but the
event seemed to indicate, that it was only assumed for

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 533

the purpose of patting the allies off their guard. On the
evening of the28th, some French advanced posts were at-
tacked by the Prussians near Wishau, and forced to fall
back : however, Bonaparte having learned that the Em-
peror Alexander had advanced to that place, followed by
the main body of his army, dispatched General Savary,
one of his aids-de-camp, avowedly to compliment that
sovereign; bnt the particulars, as well a* those of the
ensuing battle, will be best, explained from the French
bulletins ; authorities no English historian, who aims at
impartiality, need be ashamed of quoting; since the
particulars of the loss of the Russians in the battle,
which took place at Eriedland, as stated in the French
bulletins and newspapers, were confirmed, even to a
unif, by General Lord Hutchinson, who afterwards
stated, in the House of Lords, that " the Russians were
generally unsuccessful ; that they never obtained a vic-
tory ; that the success at Elau was no victory to them ;
that, in fact, the Russians were inferior to the French in
-every thing but courage ; that there never was a general
in the world equal to Bonaparte for military movements ;
and that, in the battle of Friedland, and during ten days
before it, the Russians lost 40,000 men, killed, wounded,
and prisoners, 1,800 officers, and 27 generals ! These,
it is to be observed, were the exact numbers stated in
the French bulletins ; and, as their authority was acknow-
ledged on subsequent occasions, their credit cannot be
more questionable on the former. Their account of the
memorable battle of Austerlitz, with some important
particulars which preceded and followed that remarkable
event, were thus narrated :*

* In the year 1805, Count Daru being at Boulogne, as intendant-
general of. the French army, the Emperor, one morning, summoned
' him into his cabinet, whither Daru immediately repaired, and found
him transported with rage, traversing his apartment with hurried steps,
'and breaking a sullen silence only by hasty and short ejaculations :—
?'. What a navy !— What an admiral !— What sacrifices lost !— My ex

Digitized by LjOOQIC

534 TI1E UFE 0F

THIRTIETH BULLETIN OF THE GRAND ARMY,

Austertitz, December &
" On the 27th of November, the Emperor, on recei-
ving the communication of the full powers of MM* Sta-
dion and De Giatay, previously offered an armistioe, in
order to spare the effusion of blood, if any real intention
was entertained of coming to an arrangement and defi-
nitive accommodation. — But it was easy for the Emperor
to perceive that they- had other projects in view ; and as the
hope of sncoess could only be derived from delay, on the part
of the Russian forces, he easily conjee tared that the second
and third armies were come up, or on the point of arri-
ving, at Olmntz ; and that the negotiations were only a
ruse-de-guerre, to loll his vigilance to sleep. On the
28th, at nine in the morning, a cloud of Cossacs, sup-

pectations are deceived !— This Villeneuve 1 — instead of being io the
channel, has just entered Ferrol ! — it is all over with him !— He will
be blockaded there — Daru, place yourself there (pointing to a corner
of the room), and write what I dictate."

The Emperor had received, at a very early hour, the news of the
arrival of Villeneuve in a Spanish port ; he immediately saw his in-
tended conquest of England baffled ; the immense expenses of the
fleet and flotilla lost for a time, and perhaps for ever ! 1 nen, during a
paroxysm of passion, which would have permitted no other man, in
similar circumstances, to preserve his judgement m a collected stale,
Napoleon formed one of the boldest res6lutions, and sketched the
most admirable plan of a campaign, which any conqueror ever con-
ceived in leisure and in cold blood. Without hesitating, without
stopping for a moment, he dictated the whole operation; of the cam*

faign of Austerlitz — the departure of all the corps of the army, from
lanover and Holland to the confines of the west and the south of
France— the order of the marches — their duration-^^eplaces for the
diverging and reunion of the columns— the cutting off by surprise
and the attack by open force-— the various movements of the enemy
— all were foreseen and victory insured throughout the whole of the
hypothesis. Such was the accuracy and vast foresight of this plan,
that over a line of six hundred, and operations including nine hun-
dred miles in length, the whole were followed up from primitive
indications, day by day, and place by place, as far as Munich. Be-
yond that capital, the precise days of action alone experienced some
alterations ; but the destinations were attained, and the whole of the
plan was crowned with complete success.

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. • 535

ported by Russian cavalry, made Prince Marat's ad-
vanced posts fall back, surrounded Wishau, and cap-
tured fifty of the sixth regiment x>f dragoons. In the
coarse of the day, the Emperor of Russia repaired to
Wishau, and the whole Russian army took op a position
behind that city. The Emperor sent his aid-de-camp,
General Savory, to compliment the Emperor of Russia,
as soon as he had ascertained the arrival of that prince
in the army. General Savary returned at the moment
the Emperor was reconnoitring the fires of the enemy's
outposts at Wishau. He dpoke in warm terms of oom<-
mendation of the handsome reception, the favours and
the pers6nal sentiments of the Emperor of Russia, and
even of the Grand Duke Constantino, who showed hhn
every attention ; but it was easy to understand, from the
conversation he had had, for three days, with a crowd of
cbxcombs, who, under different titles, were about the
Emperor of Russia, that presumption and imprudence
reigned in the decisions of the military coteries, as much
as they had done in those of the political cabinets. An
army so conducted could not but commit faults — the En*-
perors's plan was, from that period, to wait for them, and
watch the auspicious moment when it would be expe-
dient to act. He immediately ordered bis army to retreat
in the night, as if be had been defeated, took a goo4
position, three leagues in the rear, and laboured with
much ostentation, in fortifying it and raising batteries. -
" He proposed an interview with the Emperor of Rus-
sia, who sent him bis aid-de-camp, Prince Dolgorukf,
"who no doubt remarked, that every thing breathed re-
serve and fear, in the appearance of the French anhy.
The placing strong guards, the fortifications made with
such haste, every thing served to testify to the Russian
officer an army half beaten. — Contrary to the Emperor's
custom, who never received with so much circumspection
the flags of truce at his head quarters, he went himself to
the advanced posts. The Russian discussed evety thing

Digitized by

Google

536 • THE LIFE OF

with an impertinence difficult to be conceited ; he wasr
in the most perfect ignorance of the interests of Europe,,
and of the situation of the continent ; io & word, he was a
young trumpeter for England. He spoke to the Emperor
as he would have done to the Russian officers, whom be
had long disgusted by his haughtiness and improper con-
duel. The Emperor repressed his own indignation ; and
the young man, who had a real influence oyer the Empe-
ror Alexander, returned with a conviction that the French
army was on the very eve of ruin. One may be con-
vinced, above all, of what the Emperor most have suf-
fered, when it is known, that, towards the close of the
conversation, he proposed to him to cede Belgium, and
to place the iron crown upon the head of one of the most
implacable enemies of France ! All those different steps,
however, were attended with their due effect. The
youthful heads that directed the Russians councils gave
themselves up, without measure, to their natural presump-
tion. It was no longer a question if the French army
should be beaten, but whether it should be turned and
taken — it had only hitherto effected so much through the
cowardice of the Austriaus. We are assured that seve-
ral old Austrian generals, who made campaigns against
the Emperor, warned the council, that it was not with
such confidence that men ought to march against
old soldiers and officers of the first merit. They said,
they had seen the French Emperor, reduced to a handful
of men, ensure victory, under the most difficult circum-
stances, by rapid and unforeseen operations, and destroy
the most numeroos armies: that on the present occasion,
no advantage had been obtained ; on the contrary, that all
the affairs with the rear-guard of the first Russian army
had been in favour of the French : but' that presumptuous
young men opposed the bravery of the 80,000 Russians,
the enthusiasm inspired by the presence of their Empe-
ror, the picked corps of the Imperial Guard of Russia;
and what, probably, they dared not affirm, their own

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 537

talents, of which Ibey were astonished the Austrian*
would not acknowledge the superior power.

" On the 1st December, the Emperor, from the heights,
saw, with indescribable joy, the Russian army commen-
cing, within twice the distance of cannon-shot from his ad-
vanced posts, a flanked movement to tarn his right.
He • then perceived to what a pitch presumption and ig-
norance of the art of war had misled the . councils of that
brave force. He several times remarked, " Before to-
morrow night that army will be in my power." Yet the
enemy's idea was far different ; be appeared before our
posts within pistol shot ; and defiled by a flank march
upon a line four leagues in extent When passing the
length of the French army, which seemed quitting its
position, he had but one fear, namely, that the. French
should escape. Every thing was done . to confirm
the Russians in this idea. Prince Murat sent out a
small corps on the plain ; but, all at once, it appeared
as if astonished at the immense force of the enemy, and
returned in haste. Hence, every thing tended to confirm
the Russian general in following up the operation he had
determined upon. At night, Napoleon wished to visit
on- foot, and incognito, all the posts ; but he had not pro-
ceeded many steps ere he was recognised. It would be
impossible to depict the enthusiasm of the soldiers on
seeing him. Lighted straw was placed, in an instant,
upon the tops of innumerable poles, and 80,000 men
appeared before the Emperor, saluting him with accla-
mations ; some to celebrate the anniversary of his corona-
tion ; others saying, that the army. would, to-morrow, offer
iteboquet to theEmperor. One of the oldest grenadiers
went up to him, and exclaimed, ' Sire ! you need not
expose yourself — I promise you, in the name of the gre-
nadiers of the army, that you shall only have to fight with
your eyes, and that we will bring you, to-morrow, the
colours and artillery of the Russian army, to celebrate the
anniversary of your coronation. •' The Emperor said, upon

vol. ii.— 31. 3 z

.Digitized byV^iOOQlC

538 THE LIFE OF

bis return to his guard-house, which consisted of a i
rable straw cabin, without a roof, which the grenadier*
had erected for him ; ' This is the finest evening of my
life ; but I regret to think that I shall lose a great number
of those brave fellows. — I feel, by the pain it gives me,
that they are, indeed, my children; and I often reproach. .
myself for that sentiment, as I fear it will terminate in
rendering me unfit to carry on the war/ If the enemy
had seen the sight, it would have terrified them — bat the
unthinking Russians continued their movements, and has-
tened, with quick steps, to their inevitable ruin.

" Bonaparte made bis dispositions for battle immedi-
ately. He sent off Marshal Davoust, in great haste, to
the convent of Raygern, to keep in check the enemy's left
wing, in order that, upon a given signal, it might be quite
surrounded : he confided to Marshal Lannes the com-
mand of the left wing ; to Marshal Soult that of the right;
and to Marshal Bernadotto the direction of the centre,
while Prince Murat received the command of the cavalry,
with which he was posted on one point The left of
Marshal Lannes approaohed Santoa, a superb position,
Which had been fortified and mounted with eighteen
pieces of cannon. From the preceding evening he had
entrusted the keeping of that strong post to the 17th
light infantry, and certainly it could not be guarded by
better troops. General Sachet's division formed the left
of Marshal Lannes ; the division of General Cafereili com-
posed his right, and was supported at the same time by
Prince Murat's cavalry. The latter had before it the
hussars and chasseurs, under General Thellemont, and
the dragoon divisions of Walther and Beaumont, while
in reserve were the cuirassier divisions of Generals Nan-
souty and Hautpoult, with twenty-four pieces of light
artillery. Marshal Bernadotte (that is to say, the centre
division) had on the left the forces of General Biraad,
which also communicated with Prince Murat's right wing,
and on the right the division of General Drouet. Mar-

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 539

&ha| Soult, who commanded tbe right wing of the army,
had on his left the division of General Vandamme, in his
centre that of General St. Hilaire, and on his right the
troops of General Legrand. Marshal Davoust was de-
tached to the right of General Legrand, to observe the
road between tbe lakes and the villages of Sokolnitz
and Celnitz; he had with him General Friant's corps and
tbe dragoons of General Boucher's division. The forces
of General Gndin were directed to march, at day-break,
from Nicolsbarg, to stop tbe corps of the enemy, which
might have oat-flanked the right wing.

"The Emperor, with his faithful companion in war,
Marshal Berthier ; bis first aid-de-camp, Colonel Junot,
and all his etat-major, were in reserve with the ten bat-
talions of his guard and those of General Oudinot's gre-
nadiers, part of whom were commanded by General Du-
roc. That reserve was ranged in two lines, in columns,
while battalions deployed at a distance, having in the in-
tervals forty pieces, served by tbe cannoneers of the guard.
It was with that reserve the Emperor intended to push
forward wherever it might be necessary, and it may with
truth be asserted, that that corps was well worth an army.
„ At one in the morning the Emperor mounted on horse-
back* to visit the posts, reconnoitre the fires of the enemy,
and procure an account of what the guards had learned
of the movements of the Russians.— He heard that they
had passed the night in drunkenness and noise, and that
a corps of Russian infantry had appeared in the village
of Sokolnitz, occupied by a regiment of the division under
General Legrand, who had orders to reinforce it. Day
dawned, at length, on the 2d— the sun rose bright, and
the anniversary of the coronation of the Emperor, upon
which one of the greatest feats in arms of the age was to
be achieved, proved one of the finest days of autumn.
The battle, which the soldiers persisted in calling ' The

• It was previous to this that Napoleon enjoyed the short repose, as
represented in the subjoined plate of his Bivouac.

Digitized by

Google

540 THE LIFE OF

Day of the Three Emperors/ by others denominated 4ttbe
Day of the Anniversary ;' and which the Emperor named
' The Battle of Aosterlitz/ mast be ever memorable in
the annals of the Great Nation. The Emperor, sur-
rounded by all the marshals, waited only for theborizon
to clear up, in order to make known his final resolves.
When the snn shot forth his first rays, the commands were
issued, and each marshal joined his corps at full gallop.
The Emperor said, in passing along the front of several
regiments, ' Soldiers ! we mast finish this campaign by a
thunderbolt, which shall confound the pride of oar ene-
mies ; * and, instantly, hats were placed on the points of
their bayonets, and cries of •' Yiue FEntper eurf were the
signal for battle. — A moment afterwards the cannonade
began at the extremity of the right, which the enemy's
advanced guard had already outflanked ; bat the unex-
pected meeting with Marshal Davoast stopped the Rus-
sians short, and the battle commenced. — Marshal Soalt
then put himself in motion, proceeding to the heights* of
the village of Pratzen, with General Vandamme and St.
Hilaire's division, and cut off the enemy's right, whose
movements became uncertain : surprised by a flank march
whilst it was flying, believing itself to be attacking when
it was attacked, it considered itself as half defeated.
Prince Murat was in motion with his cavalry, and the
left wing, under command of General Lannes, equally
marched forward, en eschelons, by regiments, in the same
manner as if they had been exercising by divisions. A
tremendous cannonade instantly took place along the
whole line, 200 pieces of artillery and near 200,000 men,
made a tremendous noise ; it was a real combat of giants !
Not an hoar had elapsed, and the enemy's whole left was
cut off, while their right had already reached Austerlitz,
the head-quarters of the two Emperors, who immedi-
ately marched forwards, the Emperor of Russia's guard,
to endeavour to restore the communication of the centre,
with the left. A battalion of the 4th of the line was
charged by the imperial Russian guard, on horseback, and

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 54 1

routed ; bat the Emperor was at hand ; he perceived this
movement ; ordered Marshal Bessieres to advance to the
succour of his right with the invincibles, and. the .two
guards were soon engaged: success could not be doubt-
ful ; in a moment the Russians were routed ; colonel,
artillery, standards, every thing, was taken ! the regiment
of the Grand Duke Constantino was annihilated ! he
owed his personal safety only to the fleetoess of his horse !
From the heights of Austerlitz the two emperors beheld
the defeat of all the Russian guard ! At the same mo-,
inent, the centre of the army, commanded by Marshal
Bernadotte, advanced ; three of his regiments made . a
very fine charge of cavalry; the left, commanded by
Marshal Lannes, equally performed Several; and all the
charges were victorious : General Caffarelli's division no
less distinguished itself ; the cuirassiers took the enemy's
batteries ; so that at one point the victory was decided —
it had not been doubtful for* a moment ; not a man.of
the reserve having been wanted. The enemy's corps,
which had been surrounded and driven from all the
heights, was on a flat, and near a lake, whither the Em-
peror hastened with twenty pieces of cannon. This corps
was driven from position to position ; and we saw the
lfbrrid spectacle (such as bad been witnessed at Aboukir)
of 20,000 men throwing themselves into the . water, and
being drowned in the lake !* Two columns of Russians
(4,000 each) laid, down their arms and surrendered them-

* The columns of Russians, which threw themselves into the lakes,
were favoured by the ice ; but some cannon-shot broke it, and two
entire columns were totally annihilated at the beginning of the battle,,
anil, during several hours in the night, the Emperor went through
the field of slaughter and had the wounded removed ; a horrible sight,
if ever there were one! The Emperor, who was mounted on a very
fleet horse, passed along with the rapidity of lightning, and nothing was
more affecting than to see those brave men recognise him on the field.
Some of them forgetting their sufferings, exclaimed, "Is the victory
quite certain ?" Another said, " 1 have been in torture these eight
hours, and since the commencement of the battle I have been de-
serted, but I have done my duty." Others said, " You ought to be
well satisfied with your soldiers to day.*'— To every wounded soldier
the Emperor left a person to take him. to the waggons provided for

Digitized by

Google

542 ™E LIFE 0F

selves prisoner*: afl the enemy's park of artillery to
taken, ami the result of the day was, forty Russian stand-
ards, amongst which were those of the imperial guard,
and an incalculable number: of prisoners; we hare,
already, an account of from twenty to thirty thousand ;
twelve or fifteen generals, and, at least* fifteen thousand
Russians killed on the field of battle ! Though we have
not yet the report, we may, at the first coup-dcril, estimate
our loss at right hundred killed, and fifteen or sixteen hun-
dred wounded. This will not surprise military men, who
know that it is only in a rout thai men are lost, and no other
corps but the battalion of the 4th was penetrated. Amongst
the wounded are General St. Hilaire, who; though disabled
iu the beginning, remained the whole day on the field of
battle ! he covered himself with glory ; the generals of
divisions, KeUerman and Walter ; generals of brigade,
Valbaber, Tiniebalt, Sebastiani, Compier, and Rapp, the
Emperor's aide-de-camp : it was the latter, who, in charg-
ing at the head of the grenadiers of the guards, took
Prinoe Repnin, captain of the chevaliers of the imperial
guard of Russia, prisoner.* With respect to the men

the wounded. It is horrible to mention, that, forty-eight houre after
the battle, there were a great number of wounded Russians that could
not be dressed.

* In allusion to the above circumstance, and the representation of
General Rapp, conveying the news of the defeat of the enemy at Aus-
terlitz to Napoleon, as represented in our plate, illustrative of that
great victory, General Rapp thus expresses himself in his Memoirs, at
pages 62 and 63 :

" The Russians fled and dispersed ; Alexander and the Emperor
of Austria witnessed the defeat. Stationed on a height at a little dis-
tance from the field of battle, they beheld the guard, which had been
expected to decide the victory, cut to pieces oy a handful of brave
men. Their guns and baggage had fallen into pur possession, and
Prince Repnin was our prisoner; unfortunately, however, we had a.
great number of men killed and wounded. Colonel Morland was no
more, and I had myself received a sabre wound in the head ; in which
situation I gallopped off to give an account of the affair to the Em-
peror. My broken sabre, my wound, the blood with which I was
covered, the decided advantage we had gained with so small a force
over the enemy's chosen troops, inspired Napoleon with the idea of
the picture that was painted by Gerard. "

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 543

who were distinguished, it was die whole army that co-
vered itself with glory ; constantly charging at the cry of
' Vive TEmpereurr as the idea of celebrating tbws glori-
ously the anniversary of the coronation animated the sol-
diers. The French army was less numerous than that of
the enemy, which was 106,000 strong, 80,000 Russians,
and 25,000 Austrian*. Half of that army is destroyed,
the rest has been completely routed, and the major fait
threw away their arms J*

* In the course of this sanguinary and decisive struggle, many curi-
ous anecdotes occurred, of which we select the following from the bul-
letins as interesting occurrences :—

The Emperor said, «« I have fought thirty battles like this, but I
never saw one where the victory was so decided, and the fate of battle
so little balanced.'9 The foot-guards of the Emperor could not en-
gage ; they cried through spite, astbey absolutely insisted upon doing
something. " Be satisfied," said the Emperor, " that you have no-
thing to do : you are to engage as the reserve ; it will be so much the
'better if there be no occasion for you to day."

A part of General Vilhubert's fag was carried away by a ball. Four
soldiers approached to take him up; " Mind the order of the day,"
said he to them, with a voice like thunder, ** and join your ranks*
return victors, and carry me off after the battle is ended ; if you are
beaten, my life will only be a burthen." The loss of this general k
the only one we have to lament : all the other wounded generals are
in a state of convalescence.

General Roger Vilhubert, who, as above stated, died of his
wounds, an hour before his dissolution wrote to the Emperor in the
following terms : "I wished yet to have done more for you : I must
- die in the course' of an hour. I do not regret dying, as I. have shared
in a victory which will insure you a happy reign, w ben you some-
times remember the names of those brave men who were devoted
to you, you will, 1 trust, also think of me. I yet beg leave to re-
mind you, that 1 leave a family behind, but to recommend them—
I need not"

A carabineer of the 10th light infantry, lost his arm by a shot :
" Help me," cried he, to bis comrade, " to take off my cartridge-
box, and hasten forward to avenge my loss ; I want no other assist-
ance."—The wounded man then hanging his accoutrements upon his
left arm, proceeded alone to the hospital.

The soldiers of the train have merited the esteem of *the whole
army. The artillery did prodigious mischief to the enemy. When
a report of it was made to the Emperor, he said, " This success gives
me great pleasure, for I do not forget that it was in that corps 1 began
my military career 1"

General Thiebault was dangerously wounded ; 'four Russians seised
him, and were carrying him off; six wounded Frenchmen, having
perceived them, drove the Russians away, and seised the wounded ge»

Digitized by

Google

544 'lllte UFE °*

"This day will cost tears of blood at Petersbnrgh !
may it cause the gold of Eogland to be rejected with
indignation ! and may that young prince, whom so many
virtues have raised to be the father of his subjects, tear
himself from the influence of those coxcombs, whom Eng-
land pays, and whose impertinence thwarts his intentions,
makes him lose the love of his soldiers, and harries him
into the most ill-judged operations. Nature, in endowing
him with so many great qualities, intended him to be
the consolation of Europe : perfidious counsels, by ren-
dering him the auxiliary of England, will chronicle him,
in history, in the rank of men, who perpetuating the war
upon the continent, will have consolidated British
tyranny upon the seas, and produced the misery of our
generation. If France cannot arrive at peace bat on the
conditions proposed by the aide-de-camp, Dolsucki, to
the Emperor, and which M. Novoziltzof was ordered to
make, Russia should not obtain them, were her army
encamped upon the heights of Montmatre. In the de-
tailed relations of this battle, the 6tat-mqjor will make
known what each corps, officer, and general, have done to
render the French illustrious, and to afford proofs of their
love for the Emperor.

"On the 3d, at day-break, Prince John of Licbsten-
stein, commanding the Austrian army, repaired to the
Emperor's bead-quarters, in a barn ; he had a long audi-
ence, yet we pursued our successes: the enemy retired by
the road of Austerlitz, to Goddin ; the French army was

neral, exclaiming, " It is an honour belonging to us alone to carry a
wounded French general."

There was not an officer, a general, or a soldier, but felt determined
to conquer or to die: — We must not, however, conceal an incident
which confers honour upon the enemy. The commander of the ar-
tillery of the Imperial Russian Guard lost his cannon, soon after
which, meeting Napoleon, he exclaimed : " Sire ! order me to be
shot ; I have lost my cannon." " Young man/' replied the Empe-
ror, " I esteem your tears, but a soldier may be beaten by my army,
and still retain pretensions to glory."

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, ;545

in his rear, and followed sword in hand. Never was there
a more horrible field of battle : from the middle of the
immense lakes were beard the cries of thousands, who
ooald not be assisted ! three days most elapse ere all the
wounded enemy can be conveyed to Bronn ; the heart
bleeds for so moch bloodshed i May so many miseries
fall, at length, upon the perfidious islanders, who are the
cause of this slaughter ! may the cowardly oligarchs of
London bear Ibe burthen of so many evils !"

THIRTY-FIRST BULLETIN OF THE GRAND ARMY.

Paris, December 17.
" The cannon, that fired yesterday, at one P.M. an-
nounced great news. In the hope of hearing the thirty-
first bulletin read, we went to the theatre, and our wish
was not disappointed. The representation of Iphigenia in
Aulis had just begun, and the audience were applauding
this allusion : —

' Mais qui peut dans sa course arreter ce torrent,
Achille va combattre et trtomphe en couraut :'

when a civil officer appeared on the stage, and caused 4he

actor, Lacave, to read the following to the audience :—

" The day after the battle of Austerlitz, otherwise
called \Tbe Three Emperors/ his Majesty went to his
station at the advanced posts, and received there the
Emperor of Austria's visit. The conference of the two
Monarchs was long and amicable. Francis II. looking at
the wretched hot, in which Napoleon received him, could
not avoid expressing some surprise. 'You see/ said our
Emperor, laughing, ' these are the palaces in which you
have compelled me to reside for the last two months/ ' Yon
employ your time too well in them/ replied the Austrian
Monarch, ' to have cause to reproach me.' The convert
sation having turned npon England, Francis II. testified
his deepest indignation against the infamous policy of
that power. ' The English are vile traders ! ' he repeated
several times, ' who would set fire to the continent for
the sake of their trade , I renounce their alliance for ever !'

vol. ii.— 31. 4a..

Digitized by

Google

£46 THE LIFE OF

" Franete, encouraged by tbe freak and open air of
the French Monarch, having solicited that tbe Emperor
ef Russia might be included in the armistice, * I will now
ttate to yon/ said Napoleon, * that his army is entirely
stfrreonded ; that, to-morrow, perhaps, it will be in my
power: and, besides, nothing guarantees to me the pa-
cific views of that prince/ * His intentions are in oonr
fermity with my own/ replied Francis II. ' he shares my
hatred and contempt for the British Government — in
short, he wishes to withdraw.' ' Well, since you are his
guarantee, I desire nothing better than to prove myself
agreeable to (he wishes of the Emperor Alexander. I
will open a retreat for his army— but I stipulate that he
must retire immediately— let him evacuate alt the Austrian
possessions — not only in Germany, but in Poland : let
him retrograde, by fixed marches, of which I will pre-
scribe the route — and let no extraordinary levy be made
in the states of that Prince.'

" In consequence of this generous disposition, his Ma-
jesty sent his aide-de-camp, General Savary, to the head-
quarters of the Russian army. Introduced to the Em-
f>eror Alexander, he was received with the highest con-
sideration; when the first words spoken by the latter
were expressive of a tribute to tbe genius of Napoleon.
4 Tour Emperor has performed miracles said Alexander
•—the day before yesterday covers him with immortal glory/
Then, inquiring the details of the manoeuvres of the
grand army, he added—' Yon were inferior in numbers,
and every where your attacks were successful !'< It
was the fruit of experience/ replied tbe French Ge-
neral ; * his Majesty has already fought thirty battles like
thoae of AnsterMz/ ' And/ replied the Russian Mo-
match, * this is the first in which I have been present ; I
never pretended to rival Bonaparte— he is a very great
warrior— *he is really predestined by heaven/

<" When they recurred to the subject of the message,
Alexander inquired, what the French Einperor dempndej
of him ? and then, if his person was safe?— ' Yes, Sire/

Digitized by,

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 547

replied General Savary, ' your person is sacred ; though,
at the moment I am speaking, your army is turned. If
your Majesty explains yourself frankly, I guarantee your
retreat.'

" All the conditions abo? e alluded to appear to have
been sanctioned by the Emperor of Russia; who, as well
as the Emperor of Austria, expressed himself well sa-
tisfied with the French Monarch.

" An armistice was, therefore, concluded between the
three powers, and negotiations for peace were accordingly
entered into. The French Emperor delivered himself in
a forcible manner npon this latter point ; and, in order
not to be deceived, retained, provisionally, all he had
taken, and intended to capture; namely, nearly the
whole of Upper and Lower Austria, part of Bohemia,
Carniola, the Tyrol, and the states of Venice," &c. &c.

Cries of Vive TEmpereur, and the warmest plaudits
burst from all parts of the theatre as soon as this fortu-
nate news was read, and there was not one of the audi-
ence who did not feel as it were transported back to the
age of enchantment.

As the history, however, of the affair of Austerlitz
would be incomplete without the French Emperor's order
of the day, previous to the battle, and the two procla-
mations, issued immediately after, we think it requisite
here to insert them.

ORDER OF THE DAY.

" On the Field, December 1.
" Soldiers !

" The Russian forces are before you, to avenge the
Austrian army, at 131m; they are the same battalions yon
conquered at Hollabron, and which you have constantly
pursued. The positions we occupy are formidable, and,
whilst they march to turn my right, they shall present me
their flank.

" Soldiers! I shall direct myself all your battalions; I
shall keep at a distance from the firing, if, with your a<?«

Digitized by

Google

548 THE LIFE OF

customed bravery, you carry confusion and disorder into
the enemy's ranks ; bat should victory be for a moment
doubtful, yon shall behold your Emperor expose himself
to the first blow ; for victory cannot hesitate on this day,
in which the booour of the French infantry (which is of
so much importance to the whole nation) is concerned.
Let not the ranks be thinned under pretext of carrying
off the wounded ; and let each be well persuaded, that
we must conquer these hirelings of England, who are
animated with so deep a hatred towards our nation. This
victory will finish our campaign, when we shall return to
winter quarters, and be joined by the new armies forming
in France: then the peace which I shall sanction will be
worthy of my people, of you, and of myself.

(Signed) 4C Napoleon."

PROCLAMATION.

" Head-quarters, Dec. 2, 10 o'clock at nigh I.
" Soldiers op thb Grand Army!
" Even at this boar, before this great day shall pass
away and be lost in the ocean of eternity, your Emperor
must address you, and express how much he is satisfied
with the conduct of all those who have had the good
fortune to combat in this memorable battle. Soldiers !
you are the first warriors in the world ! The recollection of
this exploit and of your deeds, will be eternal! thousands
of ages hereafter, so long as the • events of the universe
continue to be related, will record, that a Russian army,
of seventy-six thousand men, hired by the gold of Eng-
land, was annihilated by you on the plains of Olmutz.—
The miserable remains of 'that army, upon which the
commercial spirit of a despicable nation had placed its
expiring hope, are in flight, hastening to make known to
the savage inhabitants of the North what the French are
capable of performing ; they will, likewise, tell them,
that, after having destroyed the Austrian army, at Ulm,
you told Vienna—* That army is no more ! ' To Peters*

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON; BONAPARTE. 549

burgh yon shall also say — ' The Emperor Alexander hat
no longer an army!9

•• Soldiers of the Grand Army ! four months have not
etapsed since your Emperor spoke thus to yon at Bou-
logne :*—

" We march to dissolve a coalition, formed by thegold
and intrigues of England ; and the result has been the over-
throw of three hundred thousand soldiers and two great mo-
narchies! Soldiers ! yon are worthy of immortality!— What
will your relatives, what will every Frenchman say? they
can never cease to contemplate you but with emotions of
affection and admiration. — And, when your work is com-
pleted ; when you return to your own fire-sides, your fami-
lies, all France will exclaim—' These are our brethren,
the heroes of Olmutz ! who, out of an army of seventy-six
thousand men, made ten thousand prisoners, took one
hundred and forty pieces of cannon, and left twenty-six
thousand men dead on the field !

(Signed) " Napoleon,"

Not content with this testimony of his satisfaction, the
Emperor, on the ensuing day, issued the following

PROCLAMATION.
" Head-quarters, Austerlitz, Dec* 3.

" SOLDIBRS!

" lam satisfied with you ! At the battle of Austerlitz,
you have justified what I expected from your intrepidity !
you have covered yourselves with eternal glory! An
army of one hundred thousand men, which was com-
manded by the Emperors of Russia and Austria, has
been, in less than four hours, either cut off or dispersed!
those who escaped your swords have thrown themselves
into the lakes ! Forty stands of colours, the ensigns of the
Russian Imperial Guard, one hundred and twenty pieces
of cannon, twenty generals, and above thirty thousand
prisoners, are the fruits of this ever-memorable battle !
That infantry, so celebrated, and superior to you in nuro-

Digitized by

Google

£50 THE LIFE OF

ben, has proved unable to resist your charge: and,
henceforth,you have no rivals to fear! Thus, in less than
two months, the third coalition is conquered and dis-
solved ! — Peace cannot be at a great distance ; bat, as
I promised to my people, before crossing the Rhine, t
will never conclude it bat on terms consistent with my
pledge, and which shall secure not only the indemnifica-
tion, bat the reward of my allies.

" Soldiers ! when the French people placed the impe-
rial crown upon my head, I trusted to yon to enable me
to maintain it in that high splendour of glory which alone
could give it value in my estimation ; but, at that mo*
ment, our enemies entertained the design of tarnishing
and degrading it ; and the iron crown, which was gained
by the blood of so many Frenchmen, they would have
compelled me to place on the head of my bitterest foe !
an extravagant and foolish proposal, which you have
reduced to naught on the anniversary of your Emperor's
coronation ! You have taught them that it is easier to
defy and to threaten than to subdue us.

44 Soldiers! when every thing necessary to the security,
the happiness, and the prosperity of our country has been
achieved, I will return you my thanks in France; then
will you be the objects of my teofderest care. — My people
will receive you with rapture and joy. To say to me, ' I
was at the, battle of Austerlitz ! ' will be 'enough to au-
thorize the reply, 4 That is a brave man ! '

(Signed) " Napoleon ." ,

/

The affair of Austerlitz was so decisive in its effects,
that nothing more of importance could possibly follow ;
however, reports, in London, upon very high authority,
after an account of the same had been received, conti-
nued to amuse and cheer the public mind with another
battle, on the succeeding day, in which the Russians and
their Emperor performed prodigies of valour, recovering
their cannon, and obtaining the most complete success :
these tales, however, had but a transitory existence. To

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. &&%

the discerning few, nothing appeared, on the part of the
Romans and Austrians, bat prospects of defeat and dis-
graoe. It is true, a trifling affair took place on the 3d of
December, when Prince Bragration was attacked in the
neighbourhood of Urschatz, from whence he retired, in
the evening, towards Czeitsoh.

On the 4th, the allied army made a retrograde mover
ment, crossing the river March to Hollitsch; bat the
Emperor of Germany remained at Czeitsch. Prince
John of Liechtenstein had been sent, on the 2d, to the
French Emperor, to propose, or rather to solicit, an ar-
mistice ; and it was then agreed, that a suspension of
hostilities should take place, and commence on the 4th
instant, at day-break. The Prince arrived at head-quar*
ters the evening before ; bat it appears that the French
army was not apprized of this transaction in sufficient
time to prevent the hostile movements m*de on the 4th,
In Donseqnence of this agreement, an interview between
the Emperors of. Germany and France took plaoe in the
open air, fit a small distance from the village of Na-
sedlowitz, near a mill, by the road side. The confer-
ence lasted a considerable time; when the Emperor
Francis returned to Czeitsch in the evening, and imme-
diately despatched an Austrian officer to communicate
the result of the conference to the Emperor Alexander
when General Savary was appointed by Napoleon to at-
tend the Austrian officer to the Russian head-quarters*
The Emperor of Russia is said to have received them
with politeness ; and, at the same time, though he did
not formally concur in the armistice, he made no positive
objection to its stipulations. The result of the engage-
ments then entered into, authorized the French army to
remain in possession of its conquests ; vis,— part of Mo-
ravia and Hungary ; all Upper and Lower Austria; the
Tyrol ; the, States of Vienn*, Carinthia, Sjtyria, and Carr
mote; together with the territories of GoriU* and Isirife
la Bahemia, they were to retain the Circle of Montaba^,
with the whole space eastward from Tabor to Lintz; an4

Digitized by

Google

552 TUE LlFE 0F

la hold that extensive tract until the conclusion of- a de-
finite peace, or the rapture of the negotiations; in which
case, it was also stipulated; that hostilities should not re-
commence within fourteen days, and then that the cessa-
tion of the armistice should be announced to the pleni-
potentiaries at the head of their respective armies. It was
also stipulated, that the Russian forces should evacuate
the Austrian states, Moravia, and Hungary, within the
period of fifteen days, and Gallicia within a month ; and
that the routes should be prescribed to the Russian army ;
that there should be no levy or insurrection in Hungary,
nor any extraordinary raising of troops in Bohemia ; nor
that any foreign army should be permitted to enter the
territory of the House of Austria : finally, it was stipu-
lated, that negotiators from both powers should meet at
Nicolsburg to negotiate a treaty, in order to effect, with-
out delay, the re-establishment of peace. This . agree*
meat between the French and Aostrians made it neces-
sary for the Russian army to commence its retreat, under
very distressing circumstances, on the 6th of December;
at a period when the English capital resounded with
praises of Russian valour, and the no less heroic deeds
of its magnanimous Emperor; while the French Were
represented as defeated, discouraged, and even doubtful
as to being able to effect a safe retreat to France !

Though the allies had suffered so signal a defeat on the
3d of December, the corps of 20,000 men, under Arch-
duke Ferdinand, was still left entire |n Bohemia; and,
before intelligence could reach him of the conclusion of
the armistice, he had attacked a corps of Bavarians,
under General Wrede, and was rapidly advancing in the
rear of the French army. About the same time, the
Archduke Charles made, his appearance from Hungary,
within a day's march of Vienna, with his forces on the
right bank of the Danube ; which made it appear, far &
short time, that, if the Emperor Francis bad not been so
precipitate in concluding a treaty with .the French, the
fortune of war might have taken a favourable turn : k

Digitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. £$3

was e?en said, that the Arcbdoke Charles was mortified
in the highest degree when he first heard of the treaty :
bat it was net taken into the account, that Uie Archduke
himself, unable to make head against Massena in Italy,
was then in foil flight, with another victorious army close
at his heeb !

Among the consequences of this extraordinary cam-
paign, it was generally acknowledged ; " that it bad esta-
blished the predominance of France apon the continent ;
and that the battle of Austerlitz ; or, as it had been more
familiarly denominated, ' The Battle of the Three Em-
perers/ had, in its issue, confounded all speculation." It
was admitted that the vast aggrandizement of the French
nation within a few short years, which placed every period
of its former exaltation in a secondary point of view, was
an alarming prospect : that the dominion of Charlemagne,
carried with it the seeds of its own dissolution, while
limits bad been prescribed to the ambition of Louis
XIV.; bat that no talents, no power, no combination,
in opposition to Bonaparte, seemed calculated to check
bis progress, bat, on the central y, served, in their effects,
to swell bis career with fresh victories, and add to his
strength by increasing conquests ; in short, that his wis-
dom in council, greatness of enterprise, and promptness
in action, put it almost out of the course of things that
be should ever be visited with a reverse of fortune !*

• Upon Napoleon's return to the capital, after having arranged the
preliminaries of peace between France and Austria, in 1797, prior to
the Egyptian expedition, and at the termination of two celebrated
campaigns, he was accompanied by no parade whatever; he had the
simple equipage of a private gentleman, and was attended only by
his secretary and an aide-de-camp. Again ; on his return to Fans
after the battle of Marengo, he arrived there so early in the morning
as to disappoint the expectations of those who bad waited some days
to go out and meet him.

After this still more extraordinary campaign in Germany, which ter-
minated with the victory of Austerlitz, he pursued the same course:
he entered Paris in the night to avoid all parade ; and when the mayor
and commune of Paris, in their congratulatory address on his return,
expressed* a wish that he would have given them an opportunity of

vol, ii.— 31. 4b

Digitized by

Google

554 THE LIFE OF

The Emperor received the deputation from the mayors
of Paris, presented by Prince Morat. The mayor of the
7th eircie made a speech, when the Emperor answered,
" That he saw the deputation with pleasure ; and that,
notwithstanding he received them in the palace of Maria
Theresa, still the day when he should again find himself
in the midst of his good citizens of Paris woold be to
him a real festival. He said, he bad had an opportunity of a
near view of the calamities of war, and that, from the
picture which presented itself, he was persuaded, that
the laws relative to the oonscripts should be considered
as the most wholesome and sacred, nnless they desired to
witness the devastation of VbeVx tahitaftions/' He added,
that he wished for peace, bat snch a peace as weald se-
cure the welfare of the French people. His Majesty then
informed the deputies of his intention to present the co-
lours taken in the battle, on the anniversary of his coro-
nation, to the cathedral of Paris ; and that he meant to
entrust those trophies in their hands, in order that they
might be delivered to the Cardinal Archbishop.

Napoleon reviewed the divisions of the carabineers and
cuirassiers of the Generals Hautpoult and Nansouty, on
tbe22d of December. His Majesty afterwards expressed
his satisfaction respecting the good condition of those
brave regiments, which had given him such proofs of cou-
rage in the course of the campaign, and in the battle of
Austerlitz in particular. — On the following day, his Ma-
jesty reviewed the division of Vandamme, and ordered
Marshal Sonlt to inform them, that he was satisfied in

testifying their gratitude for the services be had rendered his country,
by receiving him with due demonstrations of joy ; he made the fol-
lowing memorable reply :— " Had I been defeated, I would have
made a public entry, that, by the manner in which I was received
by my good citizen* of Paris, my enemies might have been convinced
that the attachment which they have always shown me, was not eon-
fined to my fortune : though vanquished^ they would still consider
their cause and mine as inseparably united ;— returning a victor, I
would not hasard their being accused of servile aOutatunJ'

igitized by

Google

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 555 "

seeing them so munerons, and in such good condition,
after the battle of Ansterlitz, as they bad there acquired
so much glory, and most essentially contributed to the suc-
cess of that day. — When he came to the first regiment of
the line, which commenced the battle and lost its standard,
the Emperor said, — " Soldiers, what have yon done with
the eagle I gave yon? Ton had sworn it should serve
yen as a rallying point, and that yon would defend it at
the peril of your lives ; why have you not fulfilled your
promise ?" The major answered, " that the ensign being
killed in a charge, when the battle was at the hottest, no
person had perceived the loss in the midst of the smoke ;
however, the division then made a movement to the right ;
that the battalion had sopported snch manoeuvre and that it
was a long time before the men were informed of the loss of
their eagle; that as a proof they had stood firm and
had not been broken, they very shortly after overthrew
two Russian battalions, and took two stands of con-
tours, with which they meant to do homage to the
Emperor, hoping, by that means, to merit another
eagle. Napoleon, after a short pause, said, "Officers
and soldiers, swear that none of yon were witnesses to the
loss of yonr eagle ; and that, if yon had seen it, you would
have precipitated yourselves upon the enemy to retake
it, or have perished upon the spot ; for a soldier who for-
feits his colonrs loses every thing." Instantly a thonsand
arms were raised ; " We swear it : and we swear also
to defend the eagle you will give us with the same intre-
pidity with which we captured the' enemy's colours which
we now present to you." " In that case," said the Em-
peror, smiling, " I shall return yon your eagle."

Proclamation of the Emperor Napoleon previous to his
Departure from Schoenbrunn, dated December 27, 1805.

Soldiers, — Peace between me and the Emperor of
Austria is signed. You have, in this late season of the
yoar, made two campaigns. You have performed every

Digitized by

Google

556 ™E LIFE, ETC.

thing I expected from you. I am setting oat to return
to my capital. I have promoted and distributed rewards
to those who have distinguished themselves most. I will
perform to you every thing I have promised. You have
seen that your Emperor has shared with you all dangers and
fatigues ; yon shall likewise behold him surrounded with
all that grandeur and splendour which become the sove-
reign of the first nation in the world. In the beginning
of the month of May, I will give a grand festival at
Paris ; you shall all be present; and it wUI then be manifest
whether or not we are summoned by the happiness of oar
country, and the interest of oar glory. — Soldiers, during
the three months, which are necessary lo effect your -return
to France, prove the example for all armies : you have now
to give testimonies, not of courage and intrepidity, hut of
strict discipline. May my allies have no more to complain
of your behaviour. Conduct yourselves, on your arrival in
that sacred territory, like children in the bosom of their fa-
mily : my people will conduct themselves towards you as
they must do towards their heroes and their defenders.—
Soldiers, the thought that I shall see yon all, in less than
half a year, assembled round my palace, is gratifying to
my heart ; and I feel, beforehand, the most delightful
emotions. We wUI celebrate the memory of those who,
in these two campaigns, have fallen in the field of honour.
The world shall see that we are ready to follow their ex-
ample; and, if necessary, to do still more than we have
already compassed against those who attack our honour,
or suffer themselves to be misled by the gold of the
eternal enemy of the continent.

(Signed) Napoleon.

END OF TUB 8BOOND VOLUME.

MARCIIAKT, PRINTER, INGR AM-COV RT, FENCIIU RCH-STRIET.

Digitized by

Google

Digitized by

Google

Digitized by LjOOQIC

Digitized by LjOOQIC

Digitized by LjOOQIC

J?_£044 018 814368

This book should be returned to
the Library on or before the last date
stamped below.

A fine of Ave cents a day is incurred
by retaining it beyond the specified
time.

Please return promptly.

^^Hflt pVf

Ik**

Av,*

A^

Digitized by