08 Aug 2004 - 30 Aug 2026

Jan
FEB
Mar

09

2005
2006
2007

success

fail

About this capture

COLLECTED BY

Organization: Alexa Crawls

Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.

Collection: Alexa Crawl EH

Crawl EH from Alexa Internet. This data is currently not publicly accessible.

TIMESTAMPS

The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20060209024503/http://www.nasaexplores.com:80/extras/apollo11/hirasaki.html

A
Front Row Seat For History

It
was possibly the biggest event of the century, and John Hirasaki
was part of a captive audience for the story.

As a 28-year-old NASA engineer in 1969, Hirasaki found himself sealed
in a trailer with Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Mike Collins,
just returned from the first lunar landing.

When the Apollo 11 crew returned to Earth days after the July 20,
1969 Moon landing, they were immediately placed in a Mobile Quarantine
Facility (MQF, in acronym-intensive NASA-speak) aboard the U.S.S.
Hornet aircraft carrier, which recovered their spacecraft from the
Pacific Ocean.

In
the MQF, the crew was transferred to the Lunar Receiving Laboratory
(LRL) at Johnson Space Center (JSC) in Houston, where they spent
the remainder of 21 days in isolation, to prevent the spread of
any alien germs they may have encountered while walking on the Moon.

Hirasaki,
who had come to work for NASA only 3 years earlier, was one of two
people placed in the MQF with the Apollo 11 crew when they landed.
Hirasaki, 63, who today works as an system integrations engineer
at Johnson Space Center, recently discussed his experiences with
NASAexplores.com.

"I joined NASA back in '66, a year and a half out of college,"
he said. "It sounded like a great place to work, with very
interesting projects to do. First thing out of the bag, they throw
you in the middle of the activities associated with spacecraft recovery
operation, tell you to build the necessary hardware to evaluate
the recovery equipment, ask you to prepare plans to test and qualify
the hardware and procedures, and, in general, give you the responsibility
to make it work."

For
his first assignment, Hirasaki was placed in the Landing and Recovery
Division at Johnson Space Center for the Gemini Program, which was
then nearing its end. He was deployed to the northern Pacific Ocean
on a Destroyer for the final Gemini mission to work on the craft
as soon as it was lifted from the ocean if it were to encounter
a contingency landing in that area.

At
the same time, NASA was beginning work on the Apollo program, and
Hirasaki was tapped to begin planning the landing recovery measures
for spacecraft returning from the Moon. His duties included working
on the post-landing deactivation procedures for the Apollo Reaction
Control System, the smaller thrusters used to maneuver the spacecraft,
and the qualification of the Apollo Post-landing Life Support Systems
for recovered spacecraft.

He
developed tests to make sure that, if necessary, the Apollo capsule
could support its crew on the open seas for 48 hours while waiting
for recovery workers. To simulate worst case post-landing conditions,
test subjects spent 2 days in the Apollo capsule in a wave tank
at Johnson Space Center while under simulated solar radiation and
high humidity conditions controlled by raw steam pumped into the
room.

"Hot
out of college, you're dumped in the program, and told, 'Hey, go
write up the test procedures, run the test program, write the reports,
take care of everything,'" Hirasaki said. "So, I thought
it was a very interesting training ground for young engineers.

"They
literally just tossed you in there and made you go for it. So those
were some rather interesting days where you had an extreme sense
of accomplishment with your job."

Because
of his work with landing recovery procedures on the Apollo spacecraft,
Hirasaki was tapped for qualification tests on the Mobile Quarantine
Facility.

The MQF, essentially a highly modified trailer without wheels, was
put through trials on the stern of a destroyer in the Atlantic,
and later on an aircraft carrier during one of the pre-lunar-landing
Apollo missions.

In
other tests, the facility was placed in an altitude chamber to simulate
rapid decompression (which would have broken quarantine), and microbes
were introduced to its interior to make sure it would prevent the
spread of pathogens.

In the wake of the Apollo I fire, less than a year after Hirasaki
began to work for NASA, modifications were made to eliminate flammable
materials in the potentially oxygen-rich environment of the MQF.
Since the MQF was intended to be transported by aircraft, it had
its own oxygen supply system in the event that the aircraft experienced
a loss of cabin pressure.

Finally,
as the launch date for Apollo 11 neared, a volunteer was needed
to serve in the MQF after the mission to perform landing recovery
tasks on the Command Module, Columbia. After all his training, hard
work, and preparation, Hirasaki's selection for the job came down
to luck.

"There
were four of us out of the Landing and Recovery Division that sort
of volunteered for the position," he said. "We ended up
drawing straws to see who would go on that first mission. And it
just so happened that I ended up with the short straw. So that's
how I ended up getting hooked up for the Apollo 11 mission."

While
he had a little concern about the possibility of Moon germs, Hirasaki
believed that the opportunity was well worth the risk.

"Obviously
there's concern, or else the National Academy of Science wouldn't
have made us do all this," he said of the quarantine. "Is
the gain worth the risk you're putting yourself to? You have to
answer that question for yourself going in up front."

"If
something's out there that's never been exposed to the Earth environment,
can it cause a problem by contamination? You're dealing with an
unknown. In the whole lunar landing mission, we were dealing with
a lot of unknowns."

For Hirasaki, though, the chance was too good to pass up.

"Basically,
it was to be able to participate in such a significant mission as
the Apollo lunar landing program," he said. "I think all
of us had that in mind. We were active participants; we all wanted
to contribute. It was part of our job, but we volunteered to take
any risks that came along with that particular job. And, you knew
that there were some risks."

Though
Hirasaki got married about half a year before the Apollo 11 mission,
he had already volunteered for the quarantine assignment, so his
new wife knew that possible exposure to lunar microbes was just
part of the package when she married him.

However,
he said, the publication around that time of Michael Crichton's
The Andromeda Strain, about the spread of an epidemic from space,
did little to make her feel better about it.

While
Armstrong and Aldrin were walking on the Moon, Hirasaki and Bill
Carpentier, a NASA physician, were placed in the MQF, to prevent
the possibility that they would contract an illness before the crew
returned.

On
July 24, the Apollo 11 crew landed, and Hirasaki's decision to take
the risk of volunteering paid off. When asked how the Apollo 11
crew reacted upon their return to earth, Hirasaki responded, "It
was as if the crew were saying, 'Hey, we just got back from this
just fabulous trip that nobody's ever done,' and they wanted to
tell everybody about it, because it was so interesting and exciting,"
he said. "They reminded me of three schoolmates who had gone
off on a trip where none of their classmates had ever gone, saw
all these neat sights, had just gotten back home, and were trying
to tell you about the things they saw and the things they did.

"And
Doc (Carpentier) and I had a front row seat," he said.

When the astronauts arrived on the U.S.S. Hornet and were placed
in quarantine, Hirasaki's first duty was to the Columbia command
module. A tunnel was extended from the MQF to the spacecraft, allowing
the engineer to work in its quarantined interior.

Some
may wonder why all the quarantine procedures were necessary, since
the command module hatch was opened to let the crew out when they
landed. Surely, if there had been any lunar microbes inside, they
would have escaped then into the open sea?

As
with so much else about the mission, the answer deals with risk
management.

"That's true," Hirasaki said. "It would spoil the
whole thing if the pathogen could have been airborne transmitted.
The reason they did that is, there is a limit of what you can do,
and what risks you take.

"NASA
was not willing to risk the potential injury and loss of the crew
upon trying to recover the Command Module on the open seas with
the crew inside."

Instead, a quarantine procedure was developed that would allow the
safe recovery of the crew, and would prevent spread of a pathogen
that required direct biological contact.

"So,
once again, it's a series of trade-offs," he said.

Among
Hirasaki's Command Module duties were the removal of the film with
the pictures the crew had taken on the Moon, and the true prize
of the Apollo 11 mission—the Moon rocks.

These
treasures were sealed up and passed through a liquid submersion
decontamination lock and sent by courier aircraft launched from
the USS Hornet to scientists in Houston who were eagerly awaiting
them.

In
addition to his engineering duties, Hirasaki was tasked with other
responsibilities to the new national heroes trapped with him.

"I
was chief cook and bottle washer," he said. "We had what
you would nowdays call TV dinners. In fact, there was a device aboard
the Mobile Quarantine Facility I hadn't seen before, called an Amana
Radar Range.

"See,
in the '60s, there weren't a lot of microwaves around, so we were
checking those out. You didn't want an open flame, obviously. So
we had radar ranges aboard there.

"It
was interesting because JSC had prepared the meals," he said.
"And, during the sea trials that we had originally on the destroyer,
we found out that the meals that were prepared were way too rich.
In a sea environment, you don't really want highly spiced seasoned
food. It just doesn't go along with living aboard ship.

"As
a matter of fact, I can recall we had lobster thermador, and stuff
like that. They had some very fancy menus prepared for our trials.
And we said, 'Uh-uh, that's not what you want in that environment.
Meat and potatoes are more like it.'"

"But
it was much better than what the Apollo crew had (in space), the
freeze-dried food," he said.

The
MQF was carried aboard the Hornet to Pearl Harbor, where it was
loaded on a C-141 cargo plane, which flew it to Houston.

From
there, they were transferred to the Lunar Receiving Laboratory,
where they spent another 2 weeks under quarantine.

"I
think the crew would rather have been out, but they understood why
they were there, and they went along with it," Hirasaki said.
"We had enough to do. The quarantine facility is much, much
bigger than the Apollo Command Module, so there was enough room
inside there. They could have their privacy if they wanted to."

Additional
NASA staff lived in the LRL, and even more joined later.

"If
a person that was handling the lunar samples was ever exposed, then
there was a set of rules that forced them to be transferred to our
side of the LRL," he said. "And we did have a couple of
cases where that happened. So we did pick up a couple of people."

Asked
to recall the most memorable experiences with the Apollo 11 crew
in the LRL, Hirasaki hesitated.

"That's
a long time ago," he said. "And, it was all interesting;
it was all very exciting.

"It's
sort of hard to imagine what it was like to have been a participant
in a mission of that significance. You had an extreme sense of accomplishment.
I think everybody had an extreme sense of accomplishment of having
pulled off this mission. And it took everybody doing their particular
part.

"It's
sort of amazing when you stop and think about the magnitude of the
project, the uncertainties we were dealing with, and the time period
we took to accomplish it. And, I keep wondering why we're only where
we are right now."

That
frustration was to govern Hirasaki's career arc over the following
decades. He stayed with NASA through the final Apollo landing, but
then left the agency not long afterwards in 1973.

"The
only thing that really was funded was the Shuttle," he said.
"Even then, Station programs were proposed, but did not have
the proper backing to insure their construction."

"So,
I said, hey, we're going nowhere fast," he said. "Yes,
we're going to build this great Shuttle, but what are we doing to
advance manned exploration of space."

"To
me, after having gone to the Moon, yes, this is interesting, but
it doesn't seem to fit my idea of a long-range plan to advance manned
space exploration."

After leaving NASA, Hirasaki spent 14 years in the motorcycle business.
During that time, the space industry once again came knocking. A
former boss enlisted his help in a private company staffed with
several ex-NASA employees.

"We launched a non-government-funded rocket into space in a
sub-orbital flight over the Gulf of Mexico, just to show it could
be done as a venture capital activity," he said.

Finally,
in 1986, he returned to NASA full-time, working on a crew return
vehicle for Space Station Freedom.

Eventually,
the space station became an international project, and Russian Soyuz
vehicles were picked to transport crews to and from the Station
and to serve as an emergency crew return vehicle. Today, Hirasaki
works on systems integration for Russian and European spacecraft,
making sure the Soyuz, the Progress supply ship, and the European
Automated Transfer Vehicle will work properly with U.S. systems
on the International Space Station.

"As
long as the work is interesting, I'll do it," he said. While
the Station support vehicle work is interesting enough for now,
Hirasaki hopes things will become even more interesting, and that
he'll once again see men returning from the trip Armstrong, Aldrin,
and Collins took 35 years ago.

Today,
though, few people still ask Hirasaki about his role in the history-making
event.

"Not
very many," he said. "I think that most of the people
that worked on the Apollo Program have retired and the current group
of people working at Johnson Space Center have forgotten the particular
roles that we played during the Apollo 11 mission."

Published by NASAexplores: July 15, 2004

[ Back
to Apollo page ]