THE   FABLE   OF  THE   CIGALE   AND   THE   ANT 
Fame  is  the  daughter  of  Legend.  In  the  world  of 
creatures,  as  in  the  world  of  men,  the  story  precedes 
and  outlives  history.  There  are  many  instances  of  the 
fact  that  if  an  insect  attract  our  attention  for  this  reason 
or  that,  it  is  given  a  place  in  those  legends  of  the  people 
whose  last  care  is  truth. 
For  example,  who  is  there  that  does  not,  at  least  by 
hearsay,  know  the  Cigale  ?  Where  in  the  entomological 
world  shall  we  find  a  more  famous  reputation  ?  Her 
fame  as  an  impassioned  singer,  careless  of  the  future, 
was  the  subject  of  our  earliest  lessons  in  repetition.  In 
short,  easily  remembered  lines  of  verse,  we  learned  how 
she  was  destitute  when  the  winter  winds  arrived,  and 
how  she  went  begging  for  food  to  the  Ant,  her  neigh- 
bour. A  poor  welcome  she  received,  the  would-be 
borrower  ! — a  welcome  that  has  become  proverbial,  and 
2      SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE   INSECT  WORLD 
her  chief  title  to  celebrity.     The  petty  malice  of  the  two 
short  lines — 
Vous  chantiez  !  j'en  suis  bien  aise, 
Eh  bien,  dansez  maintenant ! 
has  done  more  to  immortalise  the  insect  than  her  skill 
as  a  musician.  "  You  sang !  I  am  very  glad  to  hear 
it  1  Now  you  can  dance  ! "  The  words  lodge  in  the 
childish  memory,  never  to  be  forgotten.  To  most 
Englishmen — to  most  Frenchmen  even — the  song  of 
the  Cigale  is  unknown,  for  she  dwells  in  the  country 
of  the  olive-tree  ;  but  we  all  know  of  the  treatment  she 
received  at  the  hands  of  the  Ant.  On  such  trifles  does 
Fame  depend  !  A  legend  of  very  dubious  value,  its 
moral  as  bad  as  its  natural  history  ;  a  nurse's  tale  whose 
only  merit  is  its  brevity  ;  such  is  the  basis  of  a  reputa- 
tion which  will  survive  the  wreck  of  centuries  no  less 
surely  than  the  tale  of  Puss-in-Boots  and  of  Little  Red 
Riding-Hood. 
The  child  is  the  best  guardian  of  tradition,  the  great 
conservative.  Custom  and  tradition  become  indestruc- 
tible when  confided  to  the  archives  of  his  memory.  To 
the  child  we  owe  the  celebrity  of  the  Cigale,  of  whose 
misfortunes  he  has  babbled  during  his  first  lessons  in 
recitation.  It  is  he  who  will  preserve  for  future  gene- 
rations the  absurd  nonsense  of  which  the  body  of  the 
fable  is  constructed  ;  the  Cigale  will  always  be  hungry 
when  the  cold  comes,  although  there  were  nevci  Cigales 
«n  winter ;  she  will  always  beg  alms  in  the  shape  of  a 
few  grains  of  wheat,  a  diet  absolutely  incompatible  with 
her  delicate  capillary  "  tongue  "  ;  and  in  desperation  she 
will  hunt  for  flies  and  grubs,  although  she  never  eats. 
Whom  shall  we  hold  responsible  for  these  strange  mis- 
FABLE  OF  THE   CIGALE  AND  THE  ANT    3 
takes  ?     La  Fontaine,  who  in  most  of  his  fables  charms 
us  with  his  exquisite  fineness  of    observation,  has  here 
been  ill-inspired.     His  earlier  subjects  he  knew  down  to 
the  ground  :  the  Fox,  the  Wolf,  the  Cat,  the  Stag,   the 
Crow,  the  Rat,  the  Ferret,  and  so  many  others,  whose 
actions    and    manners    he   describes   with    a   deliahtful 
precision  of   detail.     These  are   inhabitants  of   his'own 
country;    neighbours,    fellow-parishioners.      Their    life 
private  and   public,   is   lived    under  his   eyes  ;  but   the 
Cigale  is  a  stranger  to  the  haunts  of  Jack  Rabbit.     La 
Fontaine  had  never  seen  nor  heard  her.     For   him  the 
celebrated  songstress  was  certainly   a  grasshopper. 
Grandville,  whose  pencil  rivals  the  author's  pen,  has 
fallen  into  the  same   error.     In   his   illustration   to   the 
fable  we  see  the  Ant  dressed  like  a  busy  housewife      On 
her  threshold,  beside  her  full  sacks  of  wheat,  she  dis- 
dainfully turns   her  back  upon  the  would-be  borrower, 
who   holds  out  her   claw— pardon,  her   hand.     With   a 
wide   coachman's  hat,   a  guitar  under  her  arm,    and  a 
skirt  wrapped  about  her  knees  by  the  gale,  there  stands 
the  second  personage  of  the  fable,  the  perfect  portrait  of 
a    grasshopper.     Grandville    knew    no    more    than    La 
Fontaine  of  the  true  Cigale ;  he  has  beautifully  expressed 
the  general  confusion. 
But  La  Fontaine,  in  this  abbreviated  history,  is  only 
the  echo  of  another  fabulist.  The  legend  of  the  Cigale 
and  the  cold  welcome  of  the  Ant  is  as  old  as  selfishness  • 
as  old  as  the  world.  The  children  of  Athens,  going  to 
school  with  their  baskets  of  rush-work  stuffed  with  figs 
and  olives,  were  already  repeating  the  story  under  their 
breath,  as  a  lesson  to  be  repeated  to  the  teacher.  "In 
winter,"  they  used  to  say,  "the  Ants  were  putting  their 
4     SOCIAL  -LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
damp  food  to  dry  in  the  sun.  There  came  a  starving 
Cigale  to  beg  from  them.  She  begged  for  a  few  grains. 
The  greedy  misers  repUed  :  '  You  sang  in  the  summer, 
now  dance  in  the  winter.'"  This,  aUhough  somewhat 
more  arid,  is  precisely  La  Fontaine's  story,  and  is 
contrary  to  the  facts. 
Yet  the  story  comes  to  us  from  Greece,  which  is,  hke 
the  South  of  France,  the  home  of  the  oHve-tree  and  the 
Cigale.     Was  ^sop  really  its  author,  as  tradition  would 
have  it  ?     It  is  doubtful,  and  by  no  means  a  matter  of 
importance  ;  at  all  events,  the  author  was  a  Greek,  and  a 
compatriot  of  the  Cigale,  which  must  have  been  perfectly 
familiar  to   him.     There  is  not  a  single  peasant  in  my 
village  so  blind  as  to  be  unaware  of  the  total  absence  of 
Cigales  in   winter;    and   every   tiller  of   the   soil,   every 
gardener,  is  familiar  with  the  first  phase  of  the  insect,  the 
larva,  which  his  spade  is  perpetually  discovering  when 
he   banks  up  the   olives  at   the   approach   of   the   cold 
weather,  and  he  knows,  having  seen  it  a  thousand  times 
by  the  edge  of  the  country  paths,  how  in  summer  this 
larva  issues  from  the  earth  from  a  little  round  well  of  its 
own  making  ;  how  it  climbs  a  twig  or  a  stem  of  grass, 
turns   upon  its  back,  climbs  out  of   its  skin,  drier  now 
than   parchment,   and   becomes  the  Cigale  ;  a   creature 
of  a  fresh  grass-green  colour  which  is  rapidly  replaced 
by  brown. 
We  cannot  suppose  that  the  Greek  peasant  was  so  much 
less  intelligent  than  the  Provencal  that  he  can  have 
failed  to  see  what  the  least  observant  must  have  noticed. 
He  knew  what  my  rustic  neighbours  know  so  well. 
The  scribe,  whoever  he  may  have  been,  who  was 
responsible    for   the    fable    was    in    the    best    possible 
FABLE  OF  THE  CIGALE  AND  THE  ANT    6 
circumstances   for    correct    knowledge   of    the    subject. 
Whence,  then,  arose  the  errors  of  his  tale  ? 
Less  excusably  than  La  Fontaine,  the  Greek  fabulist 
wrote  of  the  Cigale  of  the  books,  instead  of  interrogating 
the  living  Cigale,  whose  cymbals  were  resounding  on 
every  side  ;  careless  of  the  real,  he  followed  tradition. 
He  himself  echoed  a  more  ancient  narrative;  he 
repeated  some  legend  that  had  reached  him  from  India, 
the  venerable  mother  of  civilisations.  We  do  not  know 
precisely  what  story  the  reed-pen  of  the  Hindoo  may 
have  confided  to  writing,  in  order  to  show  the  perils  of  a 
life  without  foresight ;  but  it  is  probable  that  the  little 
animal  drama  was  nearer  the  truth  than  the  conversation 
between  the  Cigale  and  the  Ant.  India,  the  friend  of 
animals,  was  incapable  of  such  a  mistake.  Everything 
seems  to  suggest  that  the  principal  personage  of  the 
original  fable  was  not  the  Cigale  of  the  Midi,  but  some 
other  creature,  an  insect  if  you  will,  whose  manners 
corresponded  to  the  adopted  text. 
Imported  into  Greece,  after  long  centuries  during 
which,  on  the  banks  of  the  Indus,  it  made  the  wise 
reflect  and  the  children  laugh,  the  ancient  anecdote, 
perhaps  as  old  as  the  first  piece  of  advice  that  a  father 
of  a  family  ever  gave  in  respect  of  economy,  transmitted 
more  or  less  faithfully  from  one  memory  to  another, 
must  have  suffered  alteration  in  its  details,  as  is  the  fate 
of  all  such  legends,  which  the  passage  of  time  adapts  to 
the  circumstance  of  time  and  place. 
The  Greek,  not  finding  in  his  country  the  insect  of 
which  the  Hindoo  spoke,  introduced  the  Cigale,  as  in 
Paris,  the  modern  Athens,  the  Cigale  has  been  replaced 
by   the   Grasshopper.     The   mistake  was   made;  hence- 
tt     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
forth   indelible.     Entrusted   as   it   is  to  the  memory  of 
childhood,  error  will  prevail  against  the  truth  that  has 
before  our  eyes. 
Let  us  seek  to  rehabilitate  the  songstress  so  calum- 
niated by  the  fable.  She  is,  1  grant  you,  an  importunate 
neighbour.  Every  summer  she  takes  up  her  station 
in  liundreds  before  my  door,  attracted  thither  by  the 
verdure  of  two  great  plane-trees  ;  and  there,  from  sunrise 
to  sunset,  she  hammers  on  my  brain  with  her  strident 
symphony.  With  this  deafening  concert  thought  is 
impossible  ;  the  mind  is  in  a  whirl,  is  seized  with  vertigo, 
unable  to  concentrate  itself.  If  I  have  not  profited  by 
the  early  morning  hours  the  day  is  lost. 
Ah  I  Creature  possessed,   the  plague  of   my  dwelling, 
which  I  hoped   would  be  so  peaceful  !-the  Athenians, 
they  say,  used  to  hang  you  up  in  a  little  cage,  the  better 
to  enjoy  your  song.     One  were  well  enough,  during  the 
drowsiness   of   digestion  ;  but  hundreds,   roaring  all  at 
once,   assaulting  the  hearing  until  thought  recoils-this 
indeed   is  torture  I     You   put  forward,  as  excuse,   your 
rights  as  the  first  occupant.     Before  my  arrival  the  two 
plane-trees  were  yours  without  reserve  ;  it  is  I  who  have 
intruded,  have  thrust  myself  into  their  shade.     I  confess 
it-  yet  muffle  your  cymbals,  moderate  your  arpeggi,  for 
the  sake  of  your  historian  1    The  truth  rejects  what  the 
fabulist  tells  us  as  an  absurd  invention.      That  there  are 
sometimes  dealings  between  the  Cigale  and   the  Ant  is 
perfectly  correct ;  but  these  dealings  are  the  reverse  of 
those  described  in  the  fable.     They  depend  not  upon  the 
initiative  of  the  former;   for  the  Cigale  never  required 
the  help  of   others   in   order   to   make   her   living  :    on 
the   contrary,    they    arc   due    to    the   Ant,   the    greedy 
FABLE  OF  THE  CIGALE  AND  THE  ANT  7 
exploiter  of  others,  who  fills  her  granaries  with  every 
edible  she  can  find.  At  no  time  does  the  Cigale  plead 
starvation  at  the  doors  of  the  ant-hills,  faithfully 
promising  a  return  of  principal  and  interest ;  the  Ant 
on  the  contrary,  harassed  by  drought,  begs  of  the 
songstress.  Begs,  do  I  say  !  Borrowing  and  repayment 
are  no  part  of  the  manners  of  this  land-pirate.  She 
exploits  the  Cigale  ;  she  impudently  robs  her.  Let  us 
consider  this  theft ;  a  curious  point  of  history  as  yet 
unknown. 
In  July,  during  the  stifling  hours  of  the  afternoon, 
when  the  insect  peoples,  frantic  with  drought,  wander 
hither  and  thither,  vainly  seeking  to  quench  their  thirst 
at  the  faded,  exhausted  flowers,  the  Cigale  makes  light  of 
the  general  aridity.  With  her  rostrum,  a  delicate  augun 
she  broaches  a  cask  of  her  inexhaustible  store.  Crouch- 
ing, always  singing,  on  the  twig  of  a  suitable  shrub  or 
bush,  she  perforates  the  firm,  glossy  rind,  distended  by 
the  sap  which  the  sun  has  matured.  Plunging  her 
proboscis  into  the  bung-hole,  she  drinks  deliciously, 
motionless,  and  wrapt  in  meditation,  abandoned  to  the 
charms  of  syrup  and  of  song. 
Let  us  watch  her  awhile.  Perhaps  we  shall  witness 
unlooked-for  wretchedness  and  want.  For  there  are 
many  thirsty  creatures  wandering  hither  and  thither  ; 
and  at  last  they  discover  the  Cigale's  private  well, 
betrayed  by  the  oozing  sap  upon  the  brink.  They  gather 
round  it,  at  first  with  a  certain  amount  of  constraint, 
confining  themselves  to  lapping  the  extravasated  liquor. 
I  have  seen,  crowding  around  the  honeyed  perforation, 
wasps,  flies,  earwigs,  Sphinx-moths,  Pompilid^,  rose- 
chafers,  and,  above  all,  ants. 
8      SOCIAL  LIFB   m  THE   INSECT   WORLD 
The  smallest,  in  order  to  reach  the  well,  slip  under  the 
belly  of  the  Cigale,  who  kindly  raises  herself  on  her  claws, 
leaving  room  for  the  importunate  ones  to  pass.  The 
larger,  stamping  with  impatience,  quickly  snatch  a 
mouthful,  withdraw,  take  a  turn  on  the  neighbouring 
twigs,  and  then  return,  this  time  more  enterprising. 
Envy  grows  keener  ;  those  who  but  now  were  cautious 
become  turbulent  and  aggressive,  and  would  willingly 
drive  from  the  spring  the  well-sinker  who  has  caused  it 
to  flow. 
In  this  crowd  of  brigands  the  most  aggressive  are  the 
ants.  I  have  seen  them  nibbling  the  ends  of  the  Cigale's 
claws  ;  I  have  caught  them  tugging  the  ends  of  her 
wings,  climbing  on  her  back,  tickling  her  antennae.  One 
audacious  individual  so  far  forgot  himself  under  my  eye? 
as  to  seize  her  proboscis,  endeavouring  to  extract  it  from 
the  well  ! 
Thus  hustled  by  these  dwarfs,  and  at  the  end  of  her 
patience,  the  giantess  finally  abandons  the  well.  She 
flies  away,  throwing  a  jet  of  liquid  excrement  over  her 
tormentors  as  she  goes.  But  what  cares  the  Ant  for  this 
expression  of  sovereign  contempt  ?  She  is  left  in  posses- 
sion of  the  spring — only  too  soon  exhausted  when  the 
pump  is  removed  that  made  it  flow.  There  is  little  left, 
but  that  little  is  sweet.  So  much  to  the  good  ;  she  can 
wait  for  another  drink,  attained  in  the  same  manner,  as 
soon  as  the  occasion  presents  itself. 
As  we  see,  reality  completely  reverses  the  action 
described  by  the  fable.  The  shameless  beggar,  who 
does  not  hesitate  at  theft,  is  the  Ant ;  the  industrious 
worker,  willingly  sharing  her  goods  with  the  suffering, 
is  the  Cigale.     Yet  another  detail,  and  the  reversal  of  the 
DURING   THE   DROUGHTS  OF   SUMMER  THIRSTING    INSECTS.    AND   NOTABLY 
THE   ANT,   FLOCK   TO  THE   DRINKING-PLACES   OF  THE   CIGALE. 
To  face  p.  i>- 
FABLE  OF  THE  CIGALE  AND  THE  ANT  9 
fable  is  further  emphasised.  After  five  or  six  weeks  of 
gaiety,  the  songstress  falls  from  the  tree,  exhausted  by  the 
fever  of  life.  The  sun  shrivels  her  body  ;  the  feet  of  the 
passers-by  crush  it.  A  bandit  always  in  search  of  booty, 
the  Ant  discovers  the  remains.  She  divides  the  rich  find, 
dissects  it,  and  cuts  it  up  into  tiny  fragments,  which  go 
to  swell  her  stock  of  provisions.  It  is  not  uncommon  to 
see  a  dying  Cigale,  whose  wings  are  still  trembling  in  the 
dust,  drawn  and  quartered  by  a  gang  of  knackers.  Her 
body  is  black  with  them.  After  this  instance  of 
cannibalism  the  truth  of  the  relations  between  the  two 
insects  is  obvious. 
Antiquity  held  the  Cigale  in  high  esteem.  The  Greek 
B6ranger,  Anacreon,  devoted  an  ode  to  her,  in  which 
his  praise  of  her  is  singularly  exaggerated,  "  Thou  art 
almost  like  unto  the  Gods,"  he  says.  The  reasons  which 
he  has  given  for  this  apotheosis  are  none  of  the  best. 
They  consist  in  these  three  privileges  :  yrjyevTjc,  airadfiQ, 
avaifioaapKi  \  born  of  the  earth,  insensible  to  pain, 
bloodless.  We  will  not  reproach  the  poet  for  these 
mistakes ;  they  were  then  generally  believed,  and  were 
perpetuated  long  afterwards,  until  the  exploring  eye  of 
scientific  observation  was  directed  upon  them.  And  in 
minor  poetry,  whose  principal  merit  lies  in  rhythm  and 
harmony,  we  must  not  look  at  things  too  closely. 
Even  in  our  days,  the  Provenfal  poets,  who  know  the 
Cigale  as  Anacreon  never  did,  are  scarcely  more  careful 
of  the  truth  in  celebrating  the  insect  which  they  have 
taken  for  their  emblem.  A  friend  of  mine,  an  eager 
observer  and  a  scrupulous  realist,  does  not  deserve  this 
reproach.  He  gives  me  permission  to  take  from  his 
pigeon-holes  the  following  Provencal  poem,  in  which  the 
10    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
relations  between  the  Cigale  and  the  Ant  are  expounded 
with  all  the  rigour  of  science.  I  leave  to  him  the 
responsibility  for  his  poetic  images  and  his  moral  reflec- 
tions,  blossoms  unknown  to  my  naturalist's  garden  ;  but 
I  can  swear  to  the  truth  of  all  he  says,  for  it  corresponds 
with  what  I  see  each  summer  on  the  lilac-trees  of  my 
garden. 
LA   CIGALO   E    LA   FOURNIGO. 
Jour  de  Dieu,  queto  caud  !  Beu  tems  per  la  Cigalo, 
Que,  trefoulido,  se  regalo 
D'uno  raisso  de  fio ;  beu  tems  per  la  meissoun. 
Dins  lis  erso  d'or,  lou  segaire, 
Ren  plega,  pitre  au  vent,  rustico  e  canto  gaire ; 
Dins  soun  gousie,  la  set  estranglo  la  cansoun. 
Tems  benesi  per  tu.     Dounc,  ardit  !  cigaleto, 
Fai-lei  brusi,  ti  chimbaleto, 
E  brandusso  lou  ventre  a  creba  ti  mirau. 
L'Ome  enterin  mando  le  daio. 
Que  vai  balin-balan  de  longo  e  que  dardaio 
L'uiau  de  soun  acie  sus  li  rous  espigau. 
Plen  d'aigo  per  la  peiro  e  tampouna  d'erbiho 
Lou  coufie  sus  I'anco  pendiho. 
Si  la  peiro  es  au  fres  dins  soun  estui  de  bos, 
E  se  de  longo  es  abeurado, 
L'Ome  barbelo  au  fio  d'aqueli  souleiado 
Que  fan  bouli  de  fes  la  mesoulo  dis  os. 
Tu,  Cigalo,  as  un  biais  per  la  set :  dins  la  rusco 
Tendro  e  jutouso  d'uno  busco, 
L'aguio  de  toun  be  cabusso  e  cavo  un  pous. 
Lou  siro  monto  per  la  draio. 
Tamourres  a  la  fon  melicouso  que  raio, 
E  dou  sourgent  sucra  beves  lou  teta-dous. 
FABLE  OF  THE   CIGALE  AND  THE  ANT    11 
Mai  pas  toujour  en  pas.     Oh  !  que  nani ;  de  laire, 
Vesin,  vesino  o  barrulaire, 
T'an  vist  cava  lou  pous.     An  set ;  venon,  doulent, 
Te  prene  un  degout  per  si  tasso. 
Mesfiso-te,  ma  bello  :  aqueli  curo-biasso, 
Umble  d'abord,  soun  leu  de   gusas  insoulent. 
Quiston  un  chicouloun  di  ren,  piei  de  ti  resto 
Soun  plus  countent,  ausson  la  testo 
E  volon  tout :  L'auran.     Sis  arpioun  en  rasteu 
Te  gatihoun  lou  bout  de  I'alo. 
Sus  tu  larjo  esquinasso  es  un  mounto-davalo ; 
T'aganton  per  lou  be,  li  bano,  lis  arteu  ; 
Jiron  d'eici,  d'eila.     L'impacienci  te  gagno. 
Pst  !  pst  !  d'un  giscle  de  pissagno 
Asperges  I'assemblado  e  quites  lou  rameu. 
Ten  vas  ben  liuen  de  la  racaio, 
Que  t'a  rauba  lou  pous,  e  ris,  e  se  gougaio, 
E  se  lipo  li  brego  enviscado  de  meu. 
Or  d'aqueli  boumian  abeura  sens  fatigo, 
Lou  mai  tihous  es  la  fournigo. 
Mousco,  cabrian,  guespo  e  tavan  embana, 
Espeloufi  de  touto  meno, 
Costo-en-long  qu'a  toun  pous  lou  souleias  ameno, 
N'an  pas  soun  testardige  a  te  faire  enana. 
Per  I'esquicha  I'arteu,  te  coutiga  lou  mourre, 
Te  pessuga  lou  nas,  per  courre 
A  I'oumbro  de  toun  ventre,  osco  !  degun  la  vau. 
Lou  marrit-peu  prend  per  escalo 
Uno  patto  e  te  monto,  ardido,  sus  lis  alo, 
£  s'espasso,  insoulento,  e  vai  d'amont,  d'avau. 
n. 
Aro  veici  qu'es  pas  de  creire. 
Ancian  terns,  nous  dison  li  reire, 
Un  jour  d'iver ;  la  fam  te  prengue.     Lou  front  bas 
E  d'escoundoun  aneres  veire. 
Dins  si  grand  magasin,  la  fournigo,  eilabas. 
12    SOCrAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
L'endrudido  au  souleu  secavo, 
Avans  de  lis  escoundre  en  cavo, 
Si  blad  qu'avie  mousi  I'eigagno  de  la  niue. 
Quand  eron  lest  lis  ensacavo. 
Tu  survenes  alor,  eme  de  plour  is  iue. 
le  dises  :  "  Fai  ben  fre  ;  I'aurasso 
D'un  caire  a  I'autre  me  tirasso 
Avanido  de  fam.     A  toun  riche  mouloun 
Leisso-me  prene  per  ma  biasso. 
Te  lou  rendrai  segur  au  beu  terns  di  meloun. 
"  Presto-me  un  pau  de  gran."     Mai,  bouto, 
Se  creses  que  I'autro  t'escouto, 
T'enganes.     Di  gros  sa,  ren  de  ren  sara  tieu. 
"Vai-t'en  plus  liuen  rascla  de  bouto  ; 
Crebo  de  fam  liver,  tu  que  cantes  I'estieu." 
Ansin  charro  la  fablo  antico 
Per  nous  counseia  la  pratico 
Di  sarro-piastro,  urous  de  nousa  li  cordoun 
De  si  bourso. — Que  la  coulico 
Rousigue  la  tripaio  en  aqueli  coudoun  I 
Me  fai  susa,  lou  fabulisto, 
Quand  dis  que  I'iver  vas  en  quisto 
De  mousco,  verme,  gran,  tu  que  manges  jamaL 
De  blad  1     Que  n'en  faries,  ma  fisto  ! 
As  ta  fon  melicouso  e  demandes  ren  mai. 
Que  t'enchau  I'iver  !     Ta  famiho 
A  la  sousto  en  terro  soumiho, 
Et  tu  dornics  la  som  que  n'a  ges  de  revei ; 
Toun  cadabre  toumbo  en  douliho. 
Un  jour,  en  tafurant,  la  fournigo  lou  vei, 
De  tu  magro  peu  dessecado 
La  marriasso  fai  becado  ; 
Te  euro  lou  pcrus,  te  chapouto  si  mouciu, 
T'encafourno  per  car-salado, 
Requisto  prouvisioun,  I'iver,  en  tems  de  nen. 
FABLE  OF  THE  CIGALE  AND  THE  ANT  13 
III. 
Vaqui  I'istori  veritable 
Ben  liuen  dou  conte  de  la  fablo. 
Que  n'en  pensas,  caneu  de  sort ! 
— O  rammaissaire  de  dardeno 
Det  croucu,  boumbudo  bedeno 
Que  gouvernas  lou  mounde  erne  lou  coffre-fort, 
Fases  courre  lou  bru,  canaio, 
Que  I'artisto  jamai  travaio 
E  deu  pati,  lou  bedigas. 
Teisas-vous  dounc  :  quand  di  lambrusco 
La  Cigalo  a  cava  la  rusco, 
Raubas  soun  beure,  e  piei,  morto,  la  rousigas. 
So  speaks  my  friend  in  the  expressive  Proven9al  idiom, 
rehabilitating  the  creature  so  Hbelled  by  the  fabuhst. 
Translated  with  a  Httle  necessary  freedom,  the  English 
of  it  is  as  follows : — 
Fine  weather  for  the  Cigale  !  God,  what  heat  I 
Half  drunken  with  her  joy,  she  feasts 
In  a  hail  of  fire.  Days  for  the  harvest  meet ; 
A  golden  sea  the  reaper  breasts, 
Loins  bent,  throat  bare  ;  silent,  he  labours  long, 
For  thirst  within  his  throat  has  stilled  the  sons. 
A  blessed  time  for  thee,  little  Cigale. 
Thy  little  cymbals  shake  and  sound, 
Shake,  shake  thy  stomach  till  thy  mirrors  fall ! 
Man  meanwhile  swings  his  scythe  around ; 
Continually  back  and  forth  it  veers, 
Flashing  its  steel  amidst  the  rqddy  ears. 
U    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT-  WORLD 
Grass-plugged,  with  water  for  the  grinder  full, 
A  flask  is  hung  upon  his  hip  ; 
The  stone  within  its  wooden  trough  is  cool, 
Free  all  the  day  to  sip  and  sip ; 
But  man  is  gasping  in  the  fiery  sun. 
That  makes  his  very  marrow  melt  and  run. 
Thou,  Cigale,  hast  a  cure  for  thirst  :   the  bark, 
Tender  and  juicy,  of  the  bough. 
Thy  beak,  a  very  needle,  stabs  it.     Mark 
The  narrow  passage  welling  now ; 
The  sugared  stream  is  flowing,  thee  beside, 
Who  drinkest  of  the  flood,  the  honeyed  tide. 
Not  in  peace  always ;  nay,  for  thieves  arrive, 
Neighbours  and  wives,  or  wanderers  vile  ; 
They  saw  thee  sink  the  well,  and  ill  they  thrive 
Thirsting  ;  they  seek  to  drink  awhile  ; 
Beauty,  beware  !  the  wallet-snatcher's  face, 
Humble  at   first,  grows  insolent  apace. 
They  seek  the  merest  drop  ;  thy  leavings  take  ; 
Soon  discontent,  their  heads  they  toss ; 
They  crave  for  all,  and  all  will  have.     They  rake 
Their  claws  thy  folded  wings  across ; 
Thy  back  a  mountain,  up  and  down  each  goes  ; 
They  seize  thee  by  the  beak,  the  horns,  the  toes. 
This  way  and  that  they  pull.     Impatient  thou  : 
Pst  !   Pst !  a  jet  of   nauseous  taste 
O'er  the  assembly  sprinklest.     Leave  the  bough 
And  fly  the  rascals  thus  disgraced. 
Who  stole  thy  well,  and  with  malicious  pleasure 
Now  lick  their  honey'd  lips,  and  feed  at  leisure. 
See  these  Bohemians  without  labour  fed  ! 
The  ant  the  worst  of  all  the  crew — 
Fly,  drone,  wasp,  beetle  too  with  horned  head, 
All  of  them  sharpers  thro'  and  thro', 
Idlers  the  sun  drew  to  thy  well  apace — 
None  more  than  she  was  eager  for  thy  place, 
FABLE   OF  THE   CIGALE  AND  THE  ANT    15 
More  apt  thy  face  to  tickle,  toe  to  tread, 
Or  nose  to  pinch,  and  then  to  run 
Under  the  shade  thine  ample  belly  spread; 
Or  climb  thy  leg  for  ladder  ;  sun 
Herself  audacious  on  thy  wings,  and  go 
Most  insolently  o'er  thee  to  and  fro. 
II. 
Now  comes  a  tale  that  no  one  should  believe. 
In  other  times,  the  ancients  say. 
The  winter  came,  and  hunger  made  thee  grieve. 
Thou  didst  in  secret  see  one  day 
The  ant  below  the  ground  her  treasure  store  away. 
The  wealthy  ant  was  drying  in  the  sun 
Her  corn  the  dew  had  wet  by  night, 
Ere  storing  it  again  ;  and  one  by  one 
She  filled  her  sacks  as  it  dried  aright. 
Thou  earnest  then,  and  tears  bedimmed  thy  sight, 
Sajang  :  "  'Tis  very  cold  ;   the  bitter  bise 
Blows  me  this  way  and  that  to-day. 
I  die  of  hunger.     Of  your  riches  please 
Fill  me  my  bag,  and  I'll  repay, 
Vhen  summer  and  its  melons  come  this  way. 
"  Lend  me  a  little  corn."    Go  to,  go  to  ! 
Think  you  the  ant  will  lend  an  ear  ? 
You  are  deceived.     Great  sacks,  but  nought  tor  you ! 
'*  Be  off,  and  scrape  some  barrel  clear ! 
You  sing  of  summer  :   starve,  for  winter's  here  I " 
'Tis  thus  the  ancient  fable  sings 
To  teach  us  all  the  prudence  ripe 
Of  farthing-snatchers,  glad  to  knot  the  strings 
That  tie  their  purses.     May  the  gripe 
Of  colic  twist  the  guts  of  all  such  tripe  ! 
16    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
He  angers  me,  this  fable-teller  does, 
Saying  in  winter  thou  dost  seek 
Flies,  grubs,  corn — thou  dost  never  eat  like  us  I 
— Corn  !  Couldst  thou  eat  it,  with  thy  beak  ? 
Thou  hast  thy  fountain  with  its  honey'd  reek. 
To  thee  what  matters  winter  ?     Underground 
Slumber  thy  children,  sheltered  ;  thou 
The  sleep  that  knows  no  waking  sleepest  sound. 
Thy  body,  fallen  from  the  bough. 
Crumbles ;  the  questing  ant  has  found  thee  now. 
The  wicked  ant  of   thy  poor  withered  hide 
A  banquet  makes  ;  in  little  bits 
She  cuts  thee  up,  and  empties  thine  inside. 
And  stores  thee  where  in  wealth  she  sits  : 
Choice  diet  when  the  winter  numbs  the  wits. 
III. 
Here  is  the  tale  related  duly. 
And  little  resembling  the  fable,  truly  ! 
Hoarders  of  farthings,  I   know,  deuce  take  it, 
It  isn't  the  story  as  you  would  make  it  • 
Crook-fingers,   big-bellies,  what  do  you  say. 
Who  govern  the  world  with  the  cash-box — hey? 
You  have   spread  the  story,  with  shrug  and  smirk. 
That  the  artist  ne'er  does  a  stroke  of  work ; 
And  so  let   him  suffer,  the  imbecile  ! 
Be  you  silent  !    'Tis  you,  I   think. 
When  the  Cigale  pierces  the  vine  to  drink, 
Drive  her  away,  her  drink  to  steal ; 
And  when  she  is  dead — you  make  your  meal  I 
