2.61.010 - Creation.
There is hereby created an office of family safety, which shall consist of a director and such employees as are deemed necessary by the director or otherwise required by this chapter.
*History: Ord. BL2025-953 § 1, 2025

2.61.020 - Mission and purpose.
The office of family safety's passion and purpose are as follows: A.
Reduce and minimize the violent and trauma-related impacts of interpersonal violence: domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, child abuse, vulnerable adult abuse, and elder abuse.
B.
Provide support to victims and survivors through crisis intervention, case management, outreach and the prioritization of those cases where victims are at the highest risk of being killed or seriously injured.
C.
Facilitate and guide the metropolitan government's comprehensive multi-disciplinary and collaborative approach to combating and responding to interpersonal violence.
D.
Identify any gaps in the metropolitan government's response to victims and survivors and work with governmental departments, agencies, and nonprofit providers to recommend, lead, and partner to implement improvements.
E.
Provide high-quality education and community-wide outreach to increase understanding of and inform response to interpersonal violence.
F.
Maintain the standards of and oversee Nashville's Family Safety Centers, its collaborative partnerships, and its service providers.
*History: Ord. BL2025-953 § 1, 2025

2.61.030 - Powers and duties.
A.
Provide family safety centers within the area of the metropolitan government that are safe, inviting, and supportive to victims and survivors of interpersonal violence; ensure information provided by victims and survivors is confidential to the extent permitted by law; and oversee staff, volunteers, and partner agency personnel who work for or with the family safety centers.
B.
Provide and coordinate crisis intervention and long-term client services to victims and survivors, and identify and provide heightened services and protective measures for high-risk victims and survivors as identified by utilizing evidence-based risk assessment tools. Client services will endeavor to evaluate and reduce the level of trauma and risk experienced by victims and survivors of interpersonal violence and their families, in partnership with criminal justice, civil-legal, law enforcement, and social service agencies.
C.
Advise the metropolitan government on evidence-based best practice policies, procedures, and practices that affect the safety and well-being of victims and survivors and their families.
D.
Oversee the process of creating recommendations related to interpersonal violence within the metropolitan government and oversee the implementation of those recommendations.
E.
Provide education, training, and outreach for metropolitan government employees, partners, and the public regarding interpersonal violence, high-risk abuse, trauma-responsive work, national best practices, and other critical topics; and engage in direct outreach to marginalized and underserved populations to ensure they are aware of the services provided by family safety centers.
F.
Seek and use grant funding and award and manage funding to nonprofit organizations. The funding received and disbursed is to be used to aid in accomplishing departmental objectives and oversee the implementation and budgeting of such awards.
G.
Establish and annually review agreements with partner metropolitan government departments and nonprofit agencies, and convene, oversee, and manage interpersonal violence response coordination and collaboration with those entities.
H.
Create an annual report describing the office of family safety services, multi-disciplinary teamwork, and training, as well as outreach provided by family safety centers. This report and other reports the office of family safety deems of value shall be delivered to the mayor and vice mayor.
I.
Maintain data pertaining to office of family safety programming for future use in projections and policy decisions.
J.
Upon request, respond to mass violence incidents with metropolitan police for the purposes of trauma reduction and support.
*History: Ord. BL2025-953 § 1, 2025

2.61.040 - Personnel.
The director of the office of family safety shall be appointed by the mayor. The director and employees shall be unclassified service employees.
*History: Ord. BL2025-953 § 1, 2025
