2.12.010 - Bond for metropolitan trustee.
A.
The official bond of the metropolitan trustee is fixed at eight hundred thousand dollars.
B.
In the event the bond of the metropolitan trustee in the amount fixed by this section shall at any time be less than the minimum amount of bond required by general law of the state for county trustees, then the metropolitan trustee shall make bond in the amount authorized by general law of the state.
(Prior code § 15-1-1)

2.12.020 - Storage of certain obsolete tax records—Duties and reports.
The metropolitan trustee is authorized and directed to store with the State Archives Division of the Tennessee State Library and Archives at Nashville any tax books and tax receipt books which are no longer required to be available to title companies, the general public or anyone else due to the date of which they are a record; provided, that the metropolitan trustee shall submit to the metropolitan council a report containing a description of those tax books and receipt books which have been turned over to the Archives Division of the Tennessee State Library and Archives, and the metropolitan clerk shall spread such report on the minutes of the metropolitan council.
(Prior code § 15-1-2)

2.12.030 - Metropolitan trustee to collect delinquent property taxes.
A.
Pursuant to Section 6-55-101(b), Tennessee Code Annotated, the metropolitan trustee is directed to collect real and personal property taxes or tax equivalents and all merchants' ad valorem taxes, including all such delinquent taxes and any interest and penalties thereon. It shall then be the duty of the metropolitan trustee to collect said delinquent taxes.
B.
The metropolitan trustee shall remit daily to the metropolitan treasurer, all taxes and penalty and interest collected under the provisions of this section, and furnish such reports, accounting, inventories, and other documentation consistent with generally accepted accounting procedures as may be required by the director of finance. The metropolitan trustee shall report the status of delinquent taxes filed for further legal action with the chancery court in a form approved by the director of finance.
C.
The metropolitan trustee shall not receive a commission or other compensation for receiving and paying over such taxes, penalty and interest collected pursuant to this section, nor for providing reports and accounting pursuant to this section.
*History: Ord. 96-299 § 1, 1996
