(Commissions)
2.108.010 - Created.
There is created the metropolitan action commission.
(Prior code § 2-1-74)

2.108.020 - Membership—Appointment and term of chairman and members.
A.
The metropolitan action commission shall consist of eighteen members appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the metropolitan council. Six, or not less than one-third, of the members of the commission shall be elected public officials currently holding office, or their representatives, except that if the mayor finds that there are insufficient elected officials reasonably available or willing to serve, then the mayor may select appointive public officials to serve; specifically, the officials on the commission shall be as follows: the mayor, the metropolitan board of education, a member of the health, hospitals and social services committee of the metropolitan council elected by such committee, a member of the personnel-public information-human relations-housing committee of the metropolitan council elected by such committee, the director of metropolitan social services, and the director of the metropolitan development and housing agency. Six, or not less than one-third, of the commission shall be persons chosen in accordance with democratic selection procedures adequate to assure that they are representative of the poor in the area served. However, one of the representatives of the poor shall be president of the Head Start policy council of the metropolitan action commission, whose term shall be identical with the term of the president of the policy council. Six, or not less than one-third, of the members of the commission shall be officials or members of business, industry, labor, religious, welfare, education or major groups and interests in Metropolitan Nashville and Davidson County. The terms of the public officials on the commission, other than the metropolitan council representatives, and the term of the president of the Head Start policy council of the metropolitan action commission shall be the same as the elected or appointive term of office. The two members of council serving on the commission shall have a term of two years. The election of the member of the health, hospitals and social services committee and the personnel-public information-human relations-housing committee to serve on the commission shall take place upon the expiration of term of the chairpersons of the committees presently serving on the commission at the date of enactment of the amendatory ordinance providing that such members be elected. The other eleven members of the commission shall initially be appointed for staggered terms as follows: one-third of the representatives of the poor and of business and other interests shall have a term of one year; one-third of same shall have a term of two years; and one-third of same shall have a term of three years. Thereafter, all twelve representatives of such groups shall be appointed for a term of three years, and their terms will commence on the second day of February of the year of their appointment.
B.
The mayor shall also appoint one of the members of the commission as chairman for a term of one year.
(Amdt. 1 to Ord. BL2005-638, 2005; Ord. BL2005-638 § 1, 2005; Ord. 91-1559 § 1, 1991; prior code § 2-1-75)

2.108.030 - Vice-chairman and other officers.
Immediately upon appointment and qualification, the metropolitan action commission shall elect one of its members as vice-chairman, who shall serve for a period of one year, or until his successor shall have been chosen for the ensuing term. The commission may choose such other officers as it deems necessary.
(Prior code § 2-1-76)

2.108.040 - Meeting.
The metropolitan action commission shall hold regular meetings at least quarterly for the conduct of its business, and may hold more frequent regular meetings as its bylaws may provide. It may hold special meetings as may be deemed necessary, the same to be called or held as provided in its bylaws.
(Prior code § 2-1-77)

2.108.050 - Powers and duties.
A.
The powers, duties and responsibilities of the metropolitan action commission shall be to coordinate the existing facilities of the metropolitan government, private, state and federal educational, health and welfare facilities, to the end that all such facilities shall be marshalled in an effort to obtain full employment and job opportunity for the residents of this community through education, reeducation, upgrading of health and physical environment, and such other means as may be proper.
B.
In the performance of these powers, duties and responsibilities, the metropolitan action commission shall have the authority and, where appropriate to the context, shall be required to:
1.
Within its budget appropriation and other funds at its disposal, employ personnel and enter into contracts for such services as it may require;
2.
Enter into agreements and receive such grants or assistance, or both, as may be available from the federal or state governments for the purposes for which the commission is established, and also to receive gifts for such purposes.
C.
Coordinate among government departments, agencies and officials as necessary to meet the objectives created by the State of Tennessee under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014 (Federal Act).
1.
To administer programs as described in the workforce development system pursuant to the Federal Act's rules and regulations promulgated to carry out the purposes of the Act; and applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules and regulations.
2.
MAC may accept grants of funds made available to accomplish the purpose and intent of the Federal Act and, subject to a resolution of the metropolitan council appropriating said funds, may enter into operational agreements using such funds with the local work force investment board and any successor or additional agency as established and required by the Federal Act.
3.
To monitor and evaluate program operations implemented under the Federal Act.
4.
To contract with vendors for services contemplated by the Federal Act.
*History: Ord. BL2020-295 § 4, 2020; prior code § 2-1-78
