(Boards and Commissions)
2.64.010 - Applicability of chapter provisions.
This chapter shall be applicable to only such boards and commissions as receive all or a part of their operating revenue from funds appropriated by the metropolitan council and are subject to the provisions of Article 12 of the Metropolitan Charter.
(Prior code § 2-1-48)

2.64.020 - Establishment of divisions and other units.
Each board or commission of the metropolitan government, by rules and regulations, shall establish such divisions and other units as are provided by the Metropolitan Charter and any other divisions, sections and other units which may be necessary to maintain the proper function and operation of each respective board or commission.
(Prior code § 2-1-50)

2.64.030 - Rules and regulations for functions and personnel.
Each board or commission of the metropolitan government shall prescribe by rules and regulations the functions of the various divisions, sections and units, officers and employees of such board or commission, and define the duties and responsibilities of all its employees.
(Prior code § 2-1-51)

2.64.040 - Election of officers—Certification of organization.
Within a reasonable time after its appointment by the mayor, each board or commission shall organize itself by the election of one of its members as chairman and another as vice-chairman, as provided by Section 11.105 of the Metropolitan Charter, and, upon its organization as specified herein, each board or commission shall succeed to the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor board or commission and such predecessor board or commission shall then cease to exist. The chairman of each board or commission shall certify the organization of such board or commission by letter to the metropolitan clerk, listing the officers of the board or commission and the date of their election.
(Prior code § 2-1-49)

2.64.050 - Organization and internal management.
A.
Each board or commission having authority under the Metropolitan Charter to do so shall prepare and make available to all its employees the rules and regulations relating to the organization and internal management of such board or commission which shall include, but shall not be limited to:
1.
The organizational structure of the board or commission, including a chart or table of organization therefor;
2.
The positions within the organizational structure of the board or commission;
3.
A pay schedule for the various offices and positions under the administrative direction and authority of such board or commission;
4.
The duties and responsibilities of the various offices and positions of the board or commission;
5.
The rules which will govern the general policies of the board or commission.
B.
All of the rules and regulations provided for herein shall become effective only after approval of the mayor, upon recommendation by the board or commission involved, except as otherwise provided in the Metropolitan Charter. All such regulations, before being submitted to the mayor, shall be approved by the director of law as to form and legality, and they shall become effective upon being approved by the mayor. A copy of all rules and regulations pertaining to the compensation of personnel or other expenditure of funds shall be delivered to the director of finance for his information and for his action, if required.
C.
All rules and regulations of administrative boards and commissions pertaining to personnel shall protect such employment status as has been required by provisions of the Metropolitan Charter, and nothing in such rules and regulations shall impair or diminish the rights and privileges of employees of the former City of Nashville or of Davidson County under civil service, as provided by the Metropolitan Charter.
D.
All rules and regulations of administrative boards and commissions pertaining to personnel shall protect such status as may be established by the provisions of the civil service rules and classifications and pay plans of the metropolitan government, and nothing in the rules and regulations of such boards and commissions shall impair or diminish the rights and privileges of employees who may have civil service status.
E.
Each board and commission shall cause certified copies of the rules and regulations of the board or commission, as provided in this section, to be filed with the department of personnel and with the metropolitan clerk. Such rules and regulations shall be a public record.
F.
The metropolitan clerk shall maintain a list of the names of the official recordkeeper for every board and commission of the metropolitan government.
(Amdt. 1 with Ord. 96-525 § 1, 1996; Ord. 96-525 § 1, 1996; Ord. 92-321 § 1, 1992; prior code § 2-1-52)

2.64.055 - Contact information for members of boards and commissions.
A.
Members appointed to each board or commission shall provide the metropolitan clerk with a valid home, business, or mobile telephone number for publication on the nashville.gov website.
B.
Members of boards and commissions shall notify the metropolitan clerk of any change in the phone number to be posted.
C.
The metropolitan clerk shall notify the council rules-confirmations-public elections committee of the failure of any member of a board or commission to comply with the provisions of this ordinance. Upon receiving such notification from the metropolitan clerk, the chair of the council rules-confirmations-public elections committee shall place the matter on a publicly-noticed committee agenda at which the board or commission member in question shall have the opportunity to address the committee.
(Amdt. 1 to Ord. BL2012-213 § 1, 2012; Ord. BL2012-213 § 1, 2012)

2.64.060 - Membership demographic reports.
The metropolitan clerk shall submit a report to the metropolitan council and the mayor's office on or before October 1 of each year containing demographic information about every metropolitan government board and commission whose membership is elected or confirmed by the metropolitan council. Such report shall include the current demographic composition of the members of each board as compared to the demographic composition from the previous year. For purposes of this report, "demographic composition" means the percentage of racial minorities, ethnic minorities, gender identity, self-identified LGBTQ status, and self-identified disability status as disclosed on the questionnaire submitted to the metropolitan clerk at the time of confirmation. These reports shall remain posted on the metropolitan clerk's website.
(Amdts. 1, 2 to Ord. BL2021-657 § 1, 2021; Ord. BL2021-657 § 1, 2021)

2.64.070 - Term commencement; attendance requirements.
A.
This subsection shall apply to all boards and commissions that are created by action of the metropolitan council, whether by resolution or ordinance.
B.
Notwithstanding any resolution, ordinance, or other provision of this code to the contrary, the terms for all members of boards and commissions who are appointed or reappointed on or after December 1, 2024 shall be deemed to have begun the day after the term of the member who previously occupied the board or commission seat ended, provided the appointment is not filling the remainder of an unexpired term.
C.
If over a one-year period, a board member or commissioner is absent for two-thirds of meetings of the full body for which a quorum is required, the board member or commissioner shall be considered to have excessive absences. The chair, vice chair, or executive director of a board or commission shall notify the metropolitan clerk of excessive absences for verification. Upon verification by the metropolitan clerk, the chair, vice chair, or executive director shall refer by letter the board member or commissioner to the chair of the council rules, confirmations, and public elections committee with a copy to the metropolitan council office. The chair shall introduce legislation at the first regular council meeting occurring at least thirty days from the date of the referral to consider removal of the board member or commissioner pursuant to Section 11.109 of the Metropolitan Charter. This subsection C. shall not apply to ex-officio members of a board or commission.
*History: Ord. BL2024-582 § 1, 2024
