(Commissions)
2.136.010 - Commission authorized to adopt certain subdivision plat processing fees.
A.
The metropolitan planning commission is authorized to adopt, as a part of its subdivision regulations, a schedule of fees to be charged for the processing of subdivision plats, including but not limited to preliminary, final, zone lot partitions, planned unit developments, condominiums, and/or bonds related thereto.
B.
Any regulations adopted pursuant to this section shall be done in accordance with Tennessee Code Annotated Section 13-4-303, and shall be filed with the metropolitan clerk upon final adoption by the metropolitan planning commission.
C.
Upon adoption as set forth in subsection A of this section, such regulations shall have the same force and effect as other laws of the metropolitan government, and no plat or bond shall be recorded until the fees prescribed therein have been paid to the metropolitan government.
(Prior code § 2-1-3.6)

2.136.020 - Fees charged for computer generated map reproduction.
A.
The metropolitan government acting through the metropolitan planning commission is authorized by Tennessee Code Annotated 10-7-409 and 10-7-506 to charge fees for the reproduction of any computer-generated map. The fee is based on the actual cost for the staff to produce the map except when the map is produced for commercial purposes for persons other than individuals requesting reproductions for themselves only. Maps produced for commercial purposes will be charged an additional fee. The fee schedule is on file at the office of the metropolitan clerk.
B.
In lieu of the fees authorized by Section 4 of the ordinance codified in this section, and at the option of the person requesting digital map data having a commercial value, the metropolitan planning commission is authorized to issue a nonexclusive software license for digital mapping data for a term not to exceed three years which license will allow a user of the date to create additional value-added products for a one-time subscription fee of eight thousand one hundred dollars, and including an optional annual update fee of six hundred sixty dollars annually.
*History: Ord. 97-797, 1997

2.136.030 - Affordable housing report.
A.
The metropolitan planning department, through its two designated housing positions, shall publish and provide the members of the metropolitan council affordable housing committee not later than July 1 of each year a report providing the following information:
1.
A current baseline of Davidson County's housing needs for families with incomes at or below sixty percent of the area median income as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
2.
The number of new affordable housing units that are currently authorized and/or funded for construction.
3.
The number of units that are being explicitly preserved through public or private intervention to prevent demolition of existing affordable housing.
4.
Any other information or metric deemed necessary by the planning department to provide a clear assessment of the metropolitan government's progress toward reducing the deficit in affordable housing.
B.
Data for this report may be based upon the metropolitan development and housing agency's most recent Consolidated Plan for Metropolitan Nashville and Davidson County, and augmented with data provided by the Barnes Fund Commission, the metro planning department, and other agencies.
C.
This report may be updated quarterly on the planning department's website to reflect the demolition of existing affordable housing, the preservation of exiting affordable housing, and construction of new affordable housing in the previous quarter. Production data may consist of units that have been authorized, funded, and occupied in separate categories so that the commitment of future units can be included in the updates provided.
(Amdt. 1 to Ord. BL2021-792 § 1, 2021; Ord. BL2021-792 § 1, 2021)
