(Commissions)
2.120.010 - Establishment—Council intent—Statutory authority.
It is the intent of the metropolitan council to exercise to the full extent of the Charter power granted by Section 19.03 of the Metropolitan Charter to establish a charter revision commission to hold hearings and to make recommendations to the metropolitan council with respect to amendments to the Charter consistent with Amendment No. 8 to Article XI, Section 9 of the Constitution of Tennessee and Tennessee Code Annotated, Section 7-1-101, et seq., as they now exist or may hereafter be amended, so that in the interest of modern, efficient and economical government, the metropolitan government may be operated as one governmental entity in the interest of aiding in the solution of the public problems of a metropolitan area.
(Prior code § 2-1-88)

2.120.020 - Created—Purpose.
There is established a charter revision commission to hold hearings and to make recommendations to the metropolitan council with respect to amendments to the Metropolitan Charter.
(Prior code § 2-1-79)

2.120.030 - Appointment, compensation and term of members—Vacancy filling.
The charter revision commission shall consist of seven members, to be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by a majority of the whole membership of the metropolitan council. The members of the commission shall hold no other public office or public position of employment, and each shall serve for a term of four years without compensation. Any vacancy occurring during the term of a members shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed for the original appointment.
(Prior code § 2-1-80)

2.120.040 - Qualifications for members.
Every member of the charter revision commission shall have been a resident of the general services district or have had his principal place of business or employment therein for not less than one year prior to his appointment, and shall continue to be so eligible so long as he shall serve.
(Prior code § 2-1-81)

2.120.050 - Officers.
The charter revision commission shall elect one of its members as chairman and another as vice-chairman, who shall serve for a period of one year or until their respective successors shall have been chosen. It may elect as its secretary one of its own members, or it may appoint as secretary one who is not a member.
(Prior code § 2-1-85)

2.120.060 - Meetings.
The charter revision commission shall hold regular meetings at least quarterly for the conduct of its business, and may hold more frequent regular meetings as its bylaws may provide. It may hold special meetings as may be deemed necessary, the same to be called or held as provided in its bylaws.
(Prior code § 2-1-83)

2.120.070 - Bylaws, rules and regulations.
The charter revision commission may make such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with law, as it deems appropriate for the conduct of its business, copies of which shall be filed with the metropolitan clerk and with the secretary of the commission.
(Prior code § 2-1-86)

2.120.080 - Quorum for voting.
A majority of the members of the charter revision commission shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of meetings and transacting business.
(Prior code § 2-1-84)

2.120.090 - Powers and duties.
A.
The functions, powers and duties of the charter revision commission shall be:
1.
To receive and study recommendations relating to proposed amendments to the Metropolitan Charter;
2.
To hold public hearings with respect to amendments to the Metropolitan Charter;
3.
To make recommendations to the metropolitan council concerning the amendments to the Metropolitan Charter and to report periodically to the metropolitan council on its activities;
B.
The charter revision commission is an agency of the metropolitan government, authorized to hold hearings, and shall have the power granted by Section 18.10 of the Metropolitan Charter to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers and records pertinent to the hearing, and to administer oaths to witnesses. If any persons fails or refuses to obey a reasonable order for attendance or reasonable order for the production of books and papers, the commission is authorized to apply to the chancery court for an order requiring that the order of the commission be obeyed.
(Prior code § 2-1-82)

2.120.100 - Personnel.
The metropolitan clerk or designee shall assist the charter revision commission with the performance of administrative functions. The metropolitan clerk or designee shall also serve as the custodian of the minutes and records of the commission.
*History: Ord. BL2016-176 § 1, 2016; prior code § 2-1-87
