Article I. - Powers and Duties
2.08.010 - Acceptance and execution of certain easements and permits.
The mayor or, at his direction, the director of public property administration, the director of public works or the director of water and sewerage services, is authorized to accept and execute, on behalf of the metropolitan government, the conveyances of easements to the metropolitan government, permits to cross the property of others, and agreements relating thereto when necessary for the construction or development of any public project.
(Prior code § 2-1-2)

2.08.020 - Agreements with tax-exempt institutions for payment of metropolitan government services.
A.
The mayor is authorized to appoint a person or persons who shall institute and carry out negotiations with those institutions or agencies which are exempt from taxation and which are receiving services such as fire protection, refuse collection or police protection from the metropolitan government. The mayor is further authorized to enter into contracts with such institutions or agencies with respect to the payments to be made by such agencies to the metropolitan government for the furnishing of these services. Such contracts may be for a period of years to be determined by the mayor, and shall be based upon the reasonable cost of furnishing such services to any tax-exempt institutions or agencies within the metropolitan government area and for which services are provided or available.
B.
Those tax-exempt institutions or agencies entering into such contracts with the metropolitan government are exempt from any fees or service charges which may hereafter be levied by the metropolitan government for such services.
(Prior code § 2-1-2.1)

2.08.030 - Budget—Copies supplied—Contents.
The metropolitan mayor shall provide each member of the metropolitan council with a copy of the capital improvements budget by May 20th in the year in which the budget is to be approved by the metropolitan council. The capital improvements budget shall include an index to provide councilmen with a quick reference for each individual item proposed in the capital improvements budget.
(Prior code § 2-1-2.2)

2.08.040 - Reserved.
Editor's note—Ord. BL2020-449, § 1, passed Oct. 20, 2020, repealed § 2.08.0400, which pertained to professional services contracts for architectural or engineering services and derived from prior Code § 2-1-2.3.

2.08.045 - Conditional signature and submission of grant applications.
A.
The metropolitan mayor is authorized to sign and submit grant applications that are required to be but have not yet been submitted to the metropolitan council for approval so long as said signature is accompanied by a statement that "the application is contingent upon approval of the application by the metropolitan council, by resolution, at a regularly scheduled meeting to be held on [insert date of meeting]."
B.
That after the mayor has signed the grant application, a resolution approving the application shall be filed as soon possible in accordance with the rules adopted by the metropolitan council.
C.
That a representative of any department for the benefit of which a grant application was submitted in the manner described in subsection A of this section shall notify the grantor agency that the application was legally and officially authorized, if the resolution approving the application is adopted by the metropolitan council, or else shall withdraw the application if the resolution approving the application is not adopted by the metropolitan council.
*History: Ord. 96-471 § 1, 1996

Article II. - Civil Emergencies
2.08.050 - Definitions for Article II.
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
Civil Emergency. A "civil emergency" is defined to be: 1.
A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or violence or a threat to use force if accompanied by the immediate power to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law.
2.
Any natural disaster or man-made calamity, including but not limited to flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the metropolitan government area, resulting in the death or injury of persons, or the destruction of property, to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
3.
The destruction of property or the death or injury of persons brought about by the deliberate acts of one or more persons, acting either alone or in concert with others, when such acts are a threat to the peace of the general public or any segment thereof.
"Curfew" means a prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises within the metropolitan government area, except persons officially designated to duty with reference to such civil emergency or those lawfully on the streets as defined hereinafter.
(Prior code § 2-1-115)

2.08.060 - Proclamation of emergencies by mayor.
When, in the judgment of the mayor, a civil emergency is deemed to exist, he shall forthwith proclaim in writing the existence of same, a copy of which proclamation will be filed with the metropolitan clerk.
(Prior code § 2-1-116)

2.08.070 - General curfew proclamation authority.
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the mayor, he may order a general curfew applicable to such geographic areas of the metropolitan government or to the metropolitan government area as a whole, as he deems advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare. Such proclamation and general curfew shall have the force and effect of law and shall continue in effect until rescinded in writing by the metropolitan mayor, but not to exceed fifteen days.
(Prior code § 2-1-117)

2.08.080 - Mayor's powers and duties during proclaimed emergencies.
After proclamation of a civil emergency, the mayor may, at his discretion, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any of the following orders: A.
Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
B.
Order the closing of all establishments wherein beer or alcoholic beverages are served;
C.
Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating liquor or beer or both is permitted;
D.
Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
E.
Order the discontinuance of selling, distribution or giving away of gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
F.
Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments, the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid flammable or combustible products;
G.
Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving away any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
H.
Order the closing of any or all establishments or portions thereof, the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, dispensing or giving away of firearms or ammunition, or both;
I.
Issue such other orders as are necessary for the protection of life and property.
(Prior code § 2-1-118)

2.08.090 - No limitation of freedom of speech or peaceful demonstrations.
It is the intent of the metropolitan council not to limit peaceful demonstrations, freedom of speech or the lawful use of the streets, alleys and public property, except to the extent necessary to avert or control a civil emergency.
(Prior code § 2-1-119)

2.08.100 - Persons exempt from general curfew.
Any curfew imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to persons lawfully on the streets and public places during a civil emergency who have obtained permission from the metropolitan chief of police, which permission shall be granted on good cause shown. Such a curfew also shall not apply to medical personnel in the performance of their duties.
(Prior code § 2-1-120)

2.08.110 - [Violation of a mayoral executive order during a civil emergency is a Class C misdemeanor.]
Any person violating the provisions of orders issued by the mayor during a civil emergency and pursuant to the authority of Tennessee Code Annotated, Title 38, Chapter 9 commits a Class C misdemeanor. This section shall expire and be null and void on October 1, 2023, unless extended by resolution of the metropolitan council.
(Amdt. to Ord. BL2020-335 § 1, 2020; Ord. BL2020-335 § 1, 2020)
