(Commissions)
2.114.010 - Established.
There is hereby established the "Metropolitan Animal Care and Control Commission," referred to in this chapter as "commission."
*History: Ord. BL2025-1061 § 1, 2025

2.114.020 - Composition, membership and term of office.
A.
The commission shall be composed of seven voting members. Two members shall be representatives of local nonprofit organizations dedicated to animal welfare appointed by the mayor. One member shall be a veterinarian, preferably with experience in an animal shelter, appointed by the mayor. One member shall be a representative of a local nonprofit organization that operates an animal shelter, appointed by the mayor. One member shall be a representative of a local nonprofit organization dedicated to animal welfare elected by the metropolitan council. Two members at large shall be elected by the metropolitan council. Members appointed by the mayor shall be confirmed by the metropolitan council.
B.
In addition to these voting members, the director of the department of health or a designee shall serve as a non-voting member. One member of the metropolitan council shall be selected by that body from its membership to serve as a non-voting member for a term of two years. In no event shall the term of the council member extend beyond the council term in which they were elected.
C.
Members of the commission shall be residents of Davidson County and serve without compensation.
D.
Commission members shall serve staggered four-year terms. Of the initial members appointed, the member appointed by the mayor from a local nonprofit organization that operates an animal shelter shall be appointed for one year. The members appointed by the mayor from local nonprofit organizations dedicated to animal welfare shall be appointed for two years. The members at-large elected by the metropolitan council shall serve for three years. The veterinarian and the member elected by the metropolitan council from a local nonprofit organization dedicated to animal welfare shall serve for four years.
*History: Ord. BL2025-1061 § 1, 2025

2.114.030 - Duties.
A.
The commission shall have authority to:
1.
Promote the health, safety, and welfare for animals and pets in the jurisdiction of the metropolitan government.
2.
At the request of, and in consultation with, the director of the animal care and control services division of the department of health (Metropolitan Animal Care and Control), provide insight relative to its operations and programing while advocating for its mission.
3.
Support Metropolitan Animal Care and Control's educational animal welfare initiatives and programming.
4.
Promote community outreach, including fostering relationships with nonprofit partners.
5.
At the request of, and in consultation with, the director of Metropolitan Animal Care and Control, promulgate and maintain rules and bylaws for the commission.
6.
Prepare and submit an annual report to the mayor and metropolitan council no later than June 30 of each year summarizing activities, achievements, and areas of consideration for Metropolitan Animal Care and Control.
B.
The commission shall meet no less than once per quarter.
(Amdt. 1 to Ord. BL2025-1061 § 1, 2025; Ord. BL2025-1061 § 1, 2025)
