(Boards)
2.78.010 - Additional duties.
In addition to the duties provided in Section 11.601 of the Charter of the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, the board of fair commissioners (hereinafter "fair board") shall have the following duties and responsibilities: A.
The fair board shall negotiate with the Tennessee State Fair Association or other suitable nonprofit organization selected in accordance with the applicable procurement rules and regulations of the metropolitan government to hold a fair in 2011 and 2012 to be called "The Tennessee State Fair" on the existing 117-acre Tennessee State Fairgrounds site located in Council District 17. Any agreement negotiated between the fair board and the Tennessee State Fair Association or other suitable nonprofit organization shall provide that the metropolitan government shall not be liable for any financial losses associated with the operation of the State Fair.
B.
The fair board shall continue to operate the expo center and related facilities on the Tennessee State Fairgrounds property at such times and in such ways as to not interfere with the operation of the Tennessee State Fair until another suitable location for these activities has been identified and approved by an ordinance of the metropolitan council.
C.
Reserved.
D.
The fair board is authorized to adopt rules and regulations to enable business entities, non-profits, and other organizations to sponsor the divisional fair, expo center events, flea markets, auto racing, and other programs, events, projects, facilities, and sites at the Fairgrounds Nashville. Such rules and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, the types of events, programs, facilities, and sites that may be sponsored; the size, number, and placement of sponsor signs; the use of logos; and the types of industries and products that are not eligible to become sponsors. The fair board shall have the authority to enter into sponsorship agreements with a total net value not to exceed fifty thousand dollars. All sponsorship agreements with a total net value in excess of fifty thousand dollars must be approved by resolution adopted by the metropolitan council.
*History: Ord. BL2024-301 § 1, 2024; Ord. BL2014-667 § 1, 2014; Amdt. 2 to Ord. BL2010-820 § 1, 2011; Ord. BL2010-820 § 1, 2011
