2.52.010 - Divisions and sections established.
The director of the department of water and sewerage services shall establish by rules and regulations such divisions and other units as are provided by the Metropolitan Charter and any other divisions, sections and other units which may be necessary to maintain the proper function and operation of the department. The divisions of the department shall include, but need not be limited to, a division of water service and a division of sewerage service, which divisions shall be under the direction of an assistant director for water service and an assistant director for sewerage service respectively, who will perform such duties and responsibilities as may be assigned to them by the director of water and sewerage services.
(Prior code § 40-1-1)

2.52.020 - Assistant directors—Qualifications.
The assistant director for water service and the assistant director for sewerage service shall be graduates of a recognized college or university, preferably with an engineering degree. However, a B.A. or B.S. degree will be acceptable. In addition to the requirement of a degree, at least five years of administrative or management experience in connection with utility operation or public works projects shall be required. In lieu of a college degree, two years of college work in a recognized college or university will be acceptable, provided it is accompanied by at least ten years of administrative experience in connection with public works projects or community planning or both.
(Prior code § 40-1-2)

2.52.030 - Billings and collection manager.
There is established within the department of water and sewerage services the position of billing and collections manager. The duties and responsibilities of the employee holding the position of billing and collections manager shall be to direct and supervise the billing and collection section of the department of water and sewerage services and to plan, organize and give direction to the day-by-day activities of the employees of the billing and collections section, make special, administrative, daily, monthly and annual reports on all phases of the billing and collections section, enforce all regulations in regard to charges for service, be responsible for proper billing and collection for charge of water and sewerage service, establish proper procedures for entering new accounts on the records, write letters to consumers explaining policy, ordinances and charges, plan workload and schedule vacations, schedule days off to insure smooth operation, review customers' adjustments and refunds and supervise ordering and maintenance of equipment.
(Prior code § 40-1-3)

2.52.040 - Employment of engineering consultants.
The director of the department of water and sewerage services, with the approval of the mayor, is hereby authorized to retain necessary engineering consultants whenever, in the judgment of the director, such services are deemed to be necessary for the proper operation, maintenance and expansion of the water and sewerage system.
(Prior code § 40-1-4)
