(Boards and Commissions)
2.68.010 - Regular and special meetings—Location—Open to public.
A.
Each board or commission of the metropolitan government shall hold its regular and special meetings in a suitable place in one of the buildings of the metropolitan government. All meetings of metropolitan boards and commissions shall be open to the public.
B.
No meeting of any board or commission of the metropolitan government shall be held on private property, but shall be held in public buildings owned by the metropolitan government. Provided, however, a board or commission may hold meetings in private buildings or on private property if such board or commission is specifically permitted to hold such meetings by a contract or lease agreement approved by ordinance adopted by the council.
*History: Ord. BL2001-608 § 1, 2001; prior code § 2-1-47

2.68.020 - Public notification of meetings.
A.
Each board or commission of the metropolitan government shall develop a policy, approved by the department of law, for providing adequate notice of all board or commission meeting dates, times, locations and agendas. Such policy shall include a procedure for submitting such information to the department of information technology services for posting on the website calendar as provided in Section 2.24.146 of this code.
B.
Each board or commission of the metropolitan government shall develop a policy, approved by the department of information technology services for providing minutes of proceedings in a consistent format as soon as practicable after meeting dates. Such policy shall include a procedure for submitting agendas and minutes in a searchable electronic format for posting onto the nashville.gov website of the submitting board or commission.
C.
In addition to publication on the metropolitan website as provided in subsection A of this section, the metropolitan government, each Friday, shall make available to all newspapers of general circulation published in Davidson County a calendar of all meetings of the boards and commissions of the metropolitan government scheduled for the following week, including the dates, times, locations and agendas of the boards and commissions. The publication and notification requirement contained in this section shall not prevent a board or commission from holding a meeting on shorter notice in the event of an emergency, nor shall the provisions of this section prevent the benefit board from adding individuals to the agenda of any meeting of the benefit board so long as the subject matter of the addition to be considered by the board only concerns the individual requesting to be added. For purposes of this subsection, "emergency" means any circumstance where compliance with the notice provision in this section would result in significant financial harm to the metropolitan government or applicant, and where neither the metropolitan government nor the applicant is responsible for the delay.
D.
Any member of the public, upon request, shall be entitled to receive written notice by mail of the meeting date, time, location and agenda of any board or commission of the metropolitan government. Each board or commission shall maintain a list of all such persons requesting written notice and shall mail and/or e-mail such written notice in conformity with the policy adopted pursuant to subsection A of this section. Should a person fail to receive written notice as provided in this subsection, this shall not be considered lack of adequate public notice so long as all other means for notification required by state law or other applicable law have been satisfied.
E.
The public notice requirements provided in this section shall be in addition to any other public notice provisions required by state law or any other applicable law or regulation.
*History: Ord. BL2017-612 §§ 2—4, 2017; Ord. BL2004-245 § 2, 2004

2.68.030 - Notice of appeal process.
Each board or commission of the metropolitan government shall make a standard announcement at the beginning of every meeting informing the public as to the process and timeframe for appealing a decision of the board or commission. Such announcement shall advise that persons interested in appealing a decision of the board or commission seek the independent advice of legal counsel to ensure that the appeal is filed in a timely manner and that all procedural requirements have been satisfied. The language for the announcement required by this section shall be approved by the department of law.
*History: Ord. BL2006-1050 § 1, 2006
