(Commissions)
2.128.010 - Established.
There is established a commission dedicated to the preservation, promulgation and promotion of an accurate historical knowledge of Davidson County, to be legally known as the historical commission of Metropolitan Nashville-Davidson County.
(Prior code § 2-1-97)

2.128.020 - Purpose of the commission.
The purpose of the historical commission established by this chapter is to preserve, promulgate and promote an accurate history of Davidson County.
(Prior code § 2-1-98)

2.128.030 - Appointment and term of office of members.
The historical commission shall be composed of fifteen members who shall serve without compensation. Ten members are to be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of the whole membership of the metropolitan council. Five members are to be elected by a majority vote of the whole membership of the metropolitan council. Each member shall serve for a term of four years from the appointment dates. All vacancies of any commission member shall be filled for the balance of the unexpired term by the same appointing authority as the vacant appointments.
*History: Ord. BL2022-1528 § 4, 2023; Ord. 93-564 § 1, 1993; prior code § 2-1-99

2.128.040 - Officers and bylaws—Authority to purchase property and other powers.
The historical commission is authorized: A.
To establish its own offices and to elect its own officers therefor;
B.
To promulgate and maintain its own regulations and bylaws;
C.
To purchase and maintain any property, real or personal, in conjunction with the commission's general purpose stated in this chapter; and
D.
To make any recommendations to the mayor in regard to person suitable for appointment to the commission.
(Prior code § 2-1-100)

2.128.050 - Historical commission executive director and staff.
A.
There shall be created the position of executive director for the historical commission of the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County. The executive director shall report to and serve at the pleasure of the historical commission and shall be paid such compensation as shall be fixed by the historical commission within its budgeted appropriations. The executive director for the historical commission:
1.
Shall possess a degree in history, historic preservation, architectural history, or related field (e.g., planning, architecture), preferably with postgraduate training;
2.
Shall have at least five years of experience working in the historic preservation or related field;
3.
Shall be familiar with the history of Nashville-Davidson County and Tennessee;
4.
Shall have demonstrated ability to discharge the duties and functions of the executive director of the historical commission.
B.
The executive director of the historical commission shall hire staff as needed to carry out the necessary tasks to assist the commission in the performance of its functions.
(Amdt. C to Ord. BL2025-742 § 1, 2025; Ord. BL2025-742 § 1, 2025; Ord. BL2008-330 §§ 1, 2, 2008; Ord. 90-1339 § 1 (2-11), 1990; prior code § 2-1-100.1)

2.128.060 - Powers and duties.
In order to carry out and facilitate the historical commission's general purpose, it shall be authorized to do the following things: A.
To attempt to locate, collect and preserve historical material that it may consider relevant to the history of Davidson County;
B.
To conduct its affairs, hold legal title to any personalty or realty, and make appropriate arrangements for the purchase, preservation, promotion and use of any material, both real and personal, and to do such as an agency of the metropolitan government, as provided by the Metropolitan Charter;
C.
To receive and expend any money allocated to it by the metropolitan government, or donated to it to be used for the purposes herein stated;
D.
To make application to the internal revenue service, asking that its character be classified charitable;
E.
To ascertain and certify any evaluation of gifts, bequests and devices where requested and whenever possible;
F.
To cooperate with appropriate officials and agencies in preserving records, archives and historic buildings, and in the erection of monuments, markers, etc.;
G.
To sponsor the preparation and publication of histories, guidebooks and similar material, and to take any other actions which it considers necessary and proper in the furtherance of the board aims as set forth in this chapter;
H.
To endeavor to arouse interest in the history of the area by operating with schools, clubs and other interested organizations;
I.
To sponsor lectures, tours, exhibits and displays, and it may utilize any and all media of communication, such as newspapers, radio and television, in the accomplishments of its purposes;
J.
To lend its assistance and cooperation to the Tennessee Historical Society, the Tennessee Historical Commission, the Official Historian of Tennessee, the historian of Davidson County, and other duly constituted historical bodies and individuals in the pursuit of such common goals as may fall within the broad purpose of this commission.
K.
To serve as liaison to the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation, Division of Archeology, to facilitate the preservation of sites and artifacts found on public property as required by Tennessee Code Annotated Section 11-6-107.
(Amdt. 1 to Ord. BL2011-834 § 1, 2011; Ord. BL2011-834 § 1, 2011; prior code § 2-1-101)

2.128.070 - County historian, qualifications and duties.
A.
There shall be created the position of county historian for Davidson County. The historian shall serve for a five-year term, subject to reappointment for one additional term. The position shall be appointed by the mayor, the appointee selected from a list of candidates to be provided by the historical commission, and the mayor's appointee shall be subject to confirmation by the metropolitan council. The county historian shall have a master's degree in the history of the United States, public history, or closely related field involving the study of the history of the United States. The position shall be uncompensated, but the county historian may be compensated for incidental expenses related to the position's duties.
B.
The county historian's duties shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
1.
To serve all functions referred to in Tennessee Code Annotated § 5-18-101 in order to help collect and preserve local and state history;
2.
To serve on the historical commission as an ex-officio, non-voting member and work with the commission and its staff, as well as with all other interested entities within the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, to document and share with the public the county's history; and
3.
To serve on the Davidson County Public Records Commission as an ex-officio, non-voting member.
C.
Notwithstanding subsection (A), the current county historian, previously appointed pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated section 5-18-101, shall continue to serve until retirement or through June 30, 2026.
*History: Ord. BL2023-1991 § 1, 2023
