Article I. - Establishment and Operation
2.28.020 - General services district fire protection services.
The functions of the metropolitan government to be performed, and the governmental services to be rendered throughout the entire general services district shall include fire protection.
(Prior code § 16-1-1.1)

2.28.030 - Division of emergency ambulance and rescue service.
A.
There is created within the metropolitan fire department a division of emergency ambulance and rescue service for the purpose of providing emergency ambulance service to the citizens of the metropolitan government.
B.
There is hereby imposed upon the metropolitan fire department the power to make all rules and regulations which the metropolitan fire department deems necessary for the proper and safe operation of any ambulance or ambulance operation, whether publicly or privately owned, which rules and regulations shall include, but not be limited to the type of vehicles required, the equipment necessary for each vehicle, the fees to be charged for the transportation of persons in such vehicles, the locations where ambulances are to be stationed, and the means of dispatching such ambulances and the number of vehicles required.
C.
All rules and regulations promulgated by the metropolitan fire department for the operation of emergency ambulance service shall be approved by an advisory committee consisting of the metropolitan fire chief, chief of police, deputy fire chief emergency medical service, director of hospitals, director of finance, a representative from the Nashville Academy of Medicine, director of health, the president of the Nashville Fire Fighters Association, I.A.F.F. Local 763, the EMS division vice-president of the Nashville Fire Fighters Association, I.A.F.F. Local 763, vice-mayor, and a member of the metropolitan council's committee on health, hospitals and social services, or any of their designated representatives. Upon approval by the advisory committee, the rules shall be submitted to the metropolitan council for approval.
D.
The dispatching of all metropolitan emergency ambulances shall be a function of the emergency ambulance section of the metropolitan fire department. It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any ambulance service to respond to any emergency call unless authorized to do so by the dispatcher for the emergency ambulance service. Any violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the person may be fined in an amount not exceeding fifty dollars.
E.
In case of a disaster or holocaust, emergency ambulance service will be provided by the funeral directors to back up emergency ambulance service of the metropolitan fire department. In such case, ambulances of the funeral directors will be dispatched by the metropolitan fire chief or his designated representative.
*History: Ord. 96-162 § 1, 1996; Ord. 95-93 § 1, 1995; Ord. 91-100 § 1, 1992; prior code § 16-1-2

2.28.040 - Ambulance operation rules and regulations.
The rules and regulations made by the department of fire for the proper and safe operation of any ambulance or ambulance operation, whether publicly or privately owned, and approved by the advisory committee set up and provided for in Section 2.28.030, are approved.
(Prior code § 16-1-2.1)

2.28.050 - Obedience to orders of emergency ambulance and rescue service personnel.
No person shall interfere with or wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any employee of the division of emergency ambulance and rescue service while such employee is engaged in official business. This section shall apply only to those situations where the emergency medical technician is engaged in the care or transport of a patient.
(Prior code § 16-1-2.2)

2.28.060 - Emergency assistance policies and procedures.
A.
The metropolitan government authorizes its departments to establish policies and procedures to be followed in requesting and responding to requests for emergency assistance in accordance with the Local Government Emergency Assistance Act of 1987, Public Chapter No. 155 (T.C.A. § 58-2-601 et seq.).
B.
The policy and procedure of the metropolitan fire department, proposing the fire department's policy and procedures to be observed in requesting and responding to requests for emergency assistance is approved.
(Prior code § 16-1-7)

2.28.070 - Fire department positions.
Reserved.

2.28.080 - Personnel rules and regulations—Purpose and applicability.
A.
All rules and regulations of the department of fire pertaining to personnel shall protect such employment status as has been required by the provisions of the Charter of the Metropolitan Government, and nothing in such rules and regulations shall impair or diminish the rights and privileges of employees of the former City of Nashville or of Davidson County under the civil service provisions of the Charter of the Metropolitan Government.
B.
Provided, further, that all rules and regulations of the department of fire pertaining to personnel shall protect such status as may hereafter be established by the provisions of the civil service rules and classification and pay plan of the metropolitan government, and nothing in such department's rules and regulations shall impair or diminish the rights and privileges of the employees who may hereafter have civil service status.
(Prior code § 16-1-4)

2.28.090 - Personnel rules and regulations—Copies filed as public records.
The director of fire shall cause certified copies of the rules and regulations of the department promulgated in accordance with the metropolitan government Charter and this chapter to be filed with the department of personnel and with the metropolitan clerk, and such rules and regulations shall be a public record.
(Prior code § 16-1-5)

2.28.100 - Presentation of gun and badge to police-commissioned fire department retirees.
The metropolitan fire department shall make a gift of a gun and badge to all retiring police-commissioned fire department employees who have at least twenty-five years of service upon their retirement. To be eligible to receive the gun and badge, the police-commissioned fire department employee must retire from active service, be in good standing, be eligible to receive a service pension, and have a minimum of five years of such service in a position in the fire department requiring a police commission.
(Prior code § 16-1-6)

2.28.110 - Recognition of citizens' organizations assisting fire department programs.
A.
The fire chief of the metropolitan fire department is authorized to officially recognize nonprofit organizations within the metropolitan government area that assist the metropolitan fire department and its firefighters in fire prevention, fire detection and educational programs, and provide assistance beneficial to the metropolitan fire department and its firefighters. Any organization meeting the requirements as set out herein may be recognized by the fire chief and, if so recognized and in compliance with these requirements, may be entitled to the benefits hereunder.
B.
The following regulations are adopted and set out for the requirements for recognition as provided in subsection A of this section:
1.
The organization, in whatever form, must be not-for-profit;
2.
No member of the organization may receive compensation for their services to the organization;
3.
The organization may not receive any funding from the metropolitan government;
4.
Membership in any such organization must be approved by the fire chief.
C.
Any organization formed or approved in compliance with this section may be permitted to donate property or vehicles to the metropolitan government which are used in its programs or services. The metropolitan government shall provide insurance for or permit any such property or vehicles held in the name of the metropolitan government for such programs to be included in the metropolitan government's self-insurance programs.
D.
Except as provided in subsection C of this section, and only for such purpose, no organization officially recognized by the fire chief shall be deemed to be an agency, board, department or commission of the metropolitan government, and no member shall be deemed to be an employee or official of the metropolitan government.
(Prior code § 16-1-8)

2.28.111 - Use of the Department of Public Works' hazardous materials response vehicles for fire prevention, firefighting and the containment of hazardous materials.
A.
The Department of Public Works' hazardous materials response vehicles are authorized to perform on a first response emergency basis in furtherance of the metropolitan government's interests in fire prevention, firefighting and the containment of hazardous materials. The Department of Public Works' hazardous materials response vehicles are designated to be emergency repair vehicles for purposes of Section 12.32.070 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws and are expressly authorized to be equipped with lights that display a red light to the front of the vehicle. These vehicles are also expressly designated as "emergency firefighting vehicles" for purposes Title 55, Chapter 9, Section 402 of the Tennessee Code Annotated. Public Works shall be authorized to install, and operate red or white lights, or a combination of red and white lights, that display to the front of the hazardous materials response vehicles.
B.
The provisions of this section shall not be construed to limit, abridge or otherwise abrogate any other requirement established by any other ordinance concerning the operation of emergency vehicles. However, should the provisions of this section conflict with any other section concerning the operation of emergency vehicles then this section shall prevail.
*History: Ord. 99-1777 § 1, 1999

Article II. - Fire Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshal
2.28.120 - Municipal fire prevention commissioner—Fire marshal authority.
The fire marshal shall be deemed a municipal fire prevention commissioner within the meaning of Tennessee Code Annotated, Section 68-102-108, and shall make such reports, perform such duties and have and exercise such powers as are conferred by the State Fire Prevention Law upon municipal fire prevention commissioners.
(Prior code § 16-1-15)

2.28.130 - Laws and ordinances—Enforcement authority.
It shall be the duty of the fire marshal to enforce within Davidson County (except for the city of Goodlettsville) all laws and ordinances relating to: A.
The prevention of fires;
B.
The storage, sale and use of combustibles and explosives;
C.
The installation and maintenance of automatic or other fire alarm systems and fire-extinguishing equipment;
D.
The construction, maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
E.
The means and adequacy of exits, in case of fire, from factories, asylums, hospitals, places of worship, schools, halls, theaters, amphitheaters, and all other places in which numbers of persons live, work or congregate from time to time for any purpose.
*History: Ord. BL2017-654 § 1, 2017; Ord. BL2002-1142 § 1, 2002; prior code § 16-1-10

2.28.140 - Investigation of fires—Recordkeeping.
It shall be the duty of the fire marshal to attend fires occurring within Davidson County (except for the city of Goodlettsville), and to make investigation and ascertain the cause, origin and circumstances of all such fires. He shall keep records, in which he shall record the date of each fire, the place, the character of the building or structure, the name of the owner, lessee or occupant, the amount of loss caused by the fire, the amount of insurance carried on the building, the amount of insurance carried on stock or contents, the cause or origin of the fire, and any other fact ascertained in the course of his investigation, together with the names and addresses of any witnesses thereto.
*History: Ord. BL2002-1142 § 2, 2002; prior code § 16-1-11

2.28.150 - Inspection of buildings—Right of entry.
Upon complaint of any person having an interest in any building or in property adjacent thereto, or without any complaint, the fire marshal shall have the right at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of examination, to enter into and upon all buildings and premises in the urban services district.
(Prior code § 16-1-12)

2.28.160 - Police powers of fire marshal.
The fire marshal and his designees shall have police powers within Davidson County.
*History: Ord. BL2002-1142 § 3, 2002; prior code § 16-1-16

2.28.170 - Orders to remedy dangerous conditions—Appeals.
A.
Whenever the fire marshal shall find any building or other structure within the county which, for want of repair or by reason of age or dilapidated condition, or for any cause, is especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to endanger other buildings, structures or property, or whenever he shall find in any building or structure within the general services district, an improper or dangerous arrangement or condition of stoves, ranges, furnaces or other heating appliances of any kind whatsoever, including chimney, flues and pipes with which the same may be connected, or a dangerous condition or arrangement of lighting devices or system, or a dangerous or unlawful storage of explosives, petroleum, gasoline, kerosene, dangerous chemicals, vegetable products, fireworks, ashes, combustibles, inflammables, or refuse materials, or other conditions which, in his opinion, may constitute a dangerous fire hazard, or be liable to cause or promote fire or to create conditions dangerous to the emergency responders or to occupants of the building or to adjoining property, he shall serve an order in writing upon the owner, lessee, occupant or agent of the building for the dangerous condition or arrangement, specified and described in such written order, to be removed or remedied, within a time, not less than five days, to be designated in the order, and such order shall be within the designated time complied with by the owner, lessee and occupant or agent of such building; provided, that if the owner, lessee, occupant or agent deems himself aggrieved by such order, he may, before the next meeting of the Board of Fire and Building Code Appeals, from the service of such order, appeal to said board, by written petition addressed to the board who shall hear such appeal as soon as it can be conveniently heard, and who may make investigation and hear testimony of any witnesses, and issue subpoena for any witnesses, and who may, upon such hearing, either affirm, modify or revoke the order of the fire marshal. If the order of the fire marshal is affirmed or modified, such order so affirmed or modified shall forthwith be complied with by the owner, lessee, occupant or agent.
B.
Every such order in writing issued and served by the fire marshal shall be dated and signed by him, and copies of such order shall be kept and preserved in an order record by the fire marshal.
C.
Should the fire marshal determine that a change, addition or renovation of a privately owned building or structure is warranted to abate a fire hazard, he shall send written notice by return receipt certified mail to the owner of the building or structure. The fire marshal shall take no official action to require the change, addition or renovation until he has received return of the certified mail indicating that the owner of the property has received notice of the alleged dangerous condition.
*History: Ord. BL2007-1390 § 1, 2007; Ord. BL2002-1142 § 4, 2002; prior code § 16-1-13

2.28.180 - Failure to comply with orders.
It is unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant or agent of any building or premises to fail to comply with the written order of the fire marshal served upon him, or to fail to comply with such order of the fire marshal as affirmed or modified on appeal, as herein provided.
*History: Ord. BL2002-1142 § 5, 2002; prior code § 16-1-14

2.28.210 - Assistant fire marshal—Right of entry for inspection.
The assistant fire marshal, in aiding and assisting the fire marshal in the discharge of the duties of fire marshal under the ordinances of the metropolitan government and the law, shall have the right at all reasonable hours, for the purposes of examination, to enter into and upon all buildings and premises within Davidson county.
*History: Ord. BL2002-1142 § 7, 2002; prior code § 16-1-19

Article III. - Auxiliary Emergency Assistance Organization
2.28.220 - Created—Membership qualifications.
There is created the Auxiliary Emergency Assistance Organization of the metropolitan fire department, hereinafter referred to as "AEAO." Members of the AEAO shall be citizens of Davidson County that have filed an application with the chief of the fire department to be members of AEAO and that have completed such instructional course(s) as required by the fire chief.
(Prior code § 16-1-31)

2.28.230 - Employment status of members.
Members of AEAO shall be considered "employees" as provided under Tennessee Code Annotated, Section 29-20-107(d), but for that purpose only and no other, and then only when performing such duties as requested by the chief of the fire department.
(Prior code § 16-1-35)

2.28.240 - Course of instruction.
The fire chief shall establish a course(s) of instruction to be taken by all members of AEAO, designed to instruct such members as to the duties of AEAO members. Safety precautions to be observed by members and defensive driving courses for those members authorized to drive nonemergency equipment belonging to the fire department.
(Prior code § 16-1-32)

2.28.250 - Duties of members.
The duties of AEAO members shall be as set out below or as established by regulation of the fire chief: A.
Maintain additional safety clothing, such as gloves, hoods and boots, for use by firefighters when their clothing gets wet or is damaged;
B.
Provide refreshments for firefighting personnel during resting periods at fire and other emergency scenes;
C.
Provide an area for firefighters who become exhausted or overcome by heat and smoke to rest;
D.
Service as a shuttle unit to transport firefighters to the fire scene at shift changes.
(Prior code § 16-1-33)

2.28.260 - Access to vehicles.
AEAO shall have access to and use of such nonemergency vehicles as maintained by the department and as authorized by the fire chief. AEAO shall not, at any time, be authorized to operate or run emergency equipment.
(Prior code § 16-1-34)
