2.16.010 - Powers and duties—Restrictions.
A.
The public defender shall render legal aid and defend only those indigent defendants who are in jail, charged with the commission of a crime and are unable to make bond, or such other defendants as a court with criminal jurisdiction shall determine to be indigent. In addition, the public defender shall provide guardian ad litem services when such services are deemed required by the Davidson County juvenile court for children who are the subject of proceedings in such court and the metropolitan government would be required by law to pay reasonable compensation for such services if not provided by the public defender.
B.
The public defender shall not prosecute any appeal of an indigent defendant where such person was not represented by the public defender at the original trial from which the appeal is being taken.
C.
The public defender shall not represent any indigent defendant at any state of a habeas corpus proceeding not initiated by the public defender.
*History: Ord. 97-999 § 1, 1997; prior code § 2-1-41

2.16.020 - Additional assistant public defender—Position created.
There is created an additional assistant public defender as provided in Section 14.10 of the Metropolitan Charter.
(Prior code § 2-1-42)

2.16.030 - Additional assistant public defender—Qualifications.
The additional public defender shall be licensed to practice law in this state and shall be at the time of his appointment, and shall continue to be during the period of his service, a resident of the area of the metropolitan government.
(Prior code § 2-1-43)

2.16.040 - Additional assistant public defender—Appointment and term—Criminal law practice restrictions.
The additional assistant public defender shall serve at the pleasure of the public defender. Notice of his appointment or of revocation of the same shall be in writing and filed with the clerk of the criminal court. The additional assistant public defender may attend all criminal courts and discharge all the duties imposed by law on the public defender. The additional assistant public defender shall not engage in the private practice of criminal law during the period of his service, except to conclude matters pending when he was appointed.
(Prior code § 2-1-44)

2.16.050 - Special assistant public defenders.
A.
The public defender is authorized to employ such additional attorneys, designated as special assistant public defenders, to aid him in the performance of the duties and responsibilities of his office within the limits of his annual budgetary appropriations for the office of the public defender, and each of these special assistant public defenders shall serve at the pleasure of the public defender.
B.
Special assistant public defenders shall comply with all the qualifications of the public defender, as set out in Sections 14.10 and 14.11 of the Metropolitan Charter, and shall abide by all restrictions and limitations imposed upon the public defender by those same sections.
C.
The public defender shall file a written notice of the appointment or revocation of all special assistant public defenders with the clerk of the criminal court.
(Prior code § 2-1-46)
