Article I. - General Regulations
2.56.010 - Judge of juvenile court—Authority to detain certain juveniles—Education requirements for detainees.
A.
The judge of the juvenile court for Davidson County is authorized to detain juveniles from other counties upon written requests and executed letter contracts from proper officials from such other counties, a copy of same being attached hereto, and to set and charge reasonable per diem fees therefor.
B.
All detainees of the metro juvenile detention facility shall be provided not less than fifteen hours of active academic instruction each week. Such academic instruction shall be provided eleven months per year by at least one full-time certified teacher and at least one full-time educational assistant, who shall be employed by the metropolitan juvenile court. Such academic instruction shall be designed to afford such detainees educational enhancement and learning opportunities and shall not be merely a study hall program.
*History: Ord. 96-296 § 1, 1996; prior code § 12-1-3.1

2.56.020 - Parole of traffic violators—Failure to observe conditions deemed misdemeanor.
Persons accused of violating traffic ordinances or traffic regulations of the metropolitan government may be paroled only in the manner and under the conditions prescribed by Divisions II and III of the metropolitan court. Failure to observe such method or conditions of parole by any court officer, police officer, clerk of the traffic violations bureau or any other person charged with the administration of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor in office, and such person shall be subject to a fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars.
(Prior code § 12-1-1)

2.56.030 - Property confiscated by police department—Custody by court clerk.
All property confiscated by the metropolitan police department in connection with violations of this code or other metropolitan ordinances shall be turned over to the metropolitan court clerk and held by him until the disposition thereof is ordered by a metropolitan judge. The court clerk shall keep a record of all property turned over to him by the police department and the disposition thereof.
(Prior code § 12-1-2)

2.56.040 - Property confiscated by police department—Disposal conditions.
All property confiscated as provided in Section 2.56.030 shall be disposed of in the following manner: A.
All cash, negotiable papers, securities and other property of like kind shall be turned over to the clerk of the metropolitan court and shall be transmitted by such clerk to the metropolitan director of finance to be credited to the general fund account.
B.
All property of value not included in subsection A of this section shall be turned over to the property room of the metropolitan police department and disposed of in accordance with the procedures of the metropolitan police department.
C.
All property of no monetary value shall be disposed of at the direction of a metropolitan judge.
(Prior code § 12-1-3)

Article II. - Court Costs
2.56.050 - Applicability of article.
This article shall apply to Division I of the metropolitan courts, or any metropolitan general sessions court having jurisdiction over municipal ordinances, regulations, resolutions or private acts, with the exception of moving or nonmoving traffic violations, and the clerk serving such courts shall remit costs as provided above to the metropolitan government.
(Prior code § 12-1-18)

2.56.060 - Assessment of court costs required when—Amount.
Every person who has been convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation of a metropolitan ordinance, regulation, resolution or private act in Division I of the metropolitan court of the metropolitan government, or any other metropolitan general sessions court having jurisdiction over municipal ordinances, resolutions or private acts, with the exception of moving and nonmoving traffic violations, shall, in addition to any fine imposed or assessed by such court and in addition to any fee required to be collected for and on behalf of the state or pursuant to the laws of the state, be required to pay the clerk of the metropolitan court the following costs: A.
Where the conviction is for the violation of a metropolitan ordinance other than a traffic violation, the cost therein shall be twelve dollars and fifty cents for each such offense for which the person is convicted or pleads guilty;
B.
Should the defendant request of the court and be granted a continuance, an additional fee of five dollars for each such continuance shall be imposed. This section shall not apply to moving and nonmoving traffic violations;
C.
No cases may be retired in Division I of the metropolitan court or any other court having jurisdiction over metropolitan ordinances, regulations, resolutions or private acts, with the exception of moving and nonmoving traffic violations, until all costs have been paid;
D.
The court shall have no power to reduce, dismiss or suspend any of the costs imposed by this article.
(Prior code § 12-1-13)

2.56.070 - Payment—Accounting and remittance.
The costs imposed by this article shall be collected by and paid to the clerk of the metropolitan court, and such clerk shall account for all such costs in accordance with the rules and regulations of the director of finance of the metropolitan government, and shall remit such costs to the metropolitan treasurer.
(Prior code § 12-1-14)

2.56.080 - Time of collection—Procedure when amount paid is insufficient.
A.
The metropolitan court clerk shall collect the costs imposed herein from each person who is found to be guilty of violating a metropolitan ordinance, and such costs shall be collected at the same time and substantially simultaneous with the collection of the fine imposed, if any.
B.
In all cases where a fine is imposed, if the amount of money paid to the metropolitan court clerk is insufficient to pay the fine and costs, then the amount so paid shall be used first to pay the costs imposed herein, and the remaining amount to pay the fine. In no case, however, shall any person be imprisoned or incarcerated for failure to pay the costs imposed by this article.
(Prior code § 12-1-15)

2.56.090 - Effect of appeals on payment—Circuit court to collect costs when.
A.
Upon an appeal being taken from any judgment of the metropolitan court wherein the defendant was convicted of violating a metropolitan ordinance, regulation or private act, the appeal shall not act as stay or supersedeas as of the cost imposed by this article, unless the defendant executes an appeal bond, with solvent surety, conditioned to pay the metropolitan court costs if, upon appeal, he is found guilty.
B.
If, upon appeal to the circuit court as provided in Section 14.05 of the Charter, the defendant is found guilty of violating a metropolitan ordinance, the circuit court clerk shall collect such costs as are imposed by this article, and such costs shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other costs imposed by law. Such costs collected by the circuit court clerk shall be remitted to the metropolitan government in the same method that fines collected by the circuit court clerk on appeal are now remitted to the metropolitan government.
(Prior code § 12-1-16)

Article III. - Division of Probation
2.56.100 - Administration of the division—Appointment of employees.
The division of probation shall be administered by the office of the presiding judge of the metropolitan general sessions courts by virtue of the administrative duties assigned that office by the Charter, and shall serve each judge equitably. All employees in the division will be appointed by the presiding judge on the advice and consent of the other judges acting in majority.
(Prior code § 12-1-35)

2.56.110 - Employees—Classification and salaries.
Employees in the division will serve at the pleasure of the judges of the courts. Such employees will not be civil service employees; however, the employees will be eligible for all the benefits and privileges afforded other metropolitan government employees. Salaries of employees will be in keeping with the metropolitan department of personnel's pay plan enacted July 1, 1974, and any subsequent pay plan enacted thereafter by the council and adopted by the metropolitan government.
(Prior code § 12-1-36)

2.56.120 - Probation counselor, division directors and staffing.
There shall be a probation counselor assigned to serve each judge in each of the divisions of the courts. The division shall have a director who shall be directly responsible to the office of the presiding judge for the supervision and performance of the probation counselors, as well as all other day-to-day functions of the division and its employees. There shall be adequate secretarial services provided the division.
(Prior code § 12-1-37)

2.56.130 - Utilization of funds—Budget for operation.
The division of probation shall have the right to utilize both public and private moneys for program development and operation, and to negotiate and contract within such guidelines imposed by the administrative and legislative branches of metropolitan government. Budget for the operation shall be part of the annual budget prepared by the office of the presiding judge and court administrator for council approval.
(Prior code § 12-1-38)

2.56.135 - Reserved.
Editor's note—Ord. BL2021-782 § 1, passed July 20, 2021, repealed § 2.56.135, which pertained to probation supervision fees and derived from Ord. 91-1616 § 1, 1991; Ord. BL2006-1092 § 1, 2006; Ord. BL2008-176 § 1, 2008.

Article IV. - Parole and Probation Office
2.56.140 - Created.
There is created an office to be known as the parole and probation office of Davidson County, and to be staffed as set forth in this article.
(Prior code § 12-1-19)

2.56.150 - Chief probation officer authority—Other officers.
A.
The parole and probation office shall be under the control of the chief probation officer, whose salary shall be not more than the maximum as provided for in the metropolitan pay plan, and who shall be appointed by the judges of the criminal court of the county, and the district attorney general, and who shall serve at the pleasure of such judges and district attorney general. Such position, and all other positions of the parole and probation office, shall not be in the classified service, as provided by the Metropolitan Charter.
B.
There shall likewise be authorized one supervising probation officer, one principal probation officer and one senior legal stenographer, whose salaries shall be as provided for in the metropolitan pay plan, and who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of such judges and district attorney general.
(Prior code § 12-1-23)

2.56.160 - Responsibilities and duties.
This office shall have the responsibility of assisting the judges and the district attorney general of the criminal courts of the metropolitan government in the investigation, supervision and control of persons released, or who apply to be released, under suspended sentences on parole by such judges. Such parole and probation office shall, under the direction of such judges and the district attorney general, investigate and make reports to such officials as to the circumstances, history, criminal record, social, physical and mental condition of persons who apply to be released, or are released, under a suspended sentence on parole. Such office shall also investigate and make reports so such officials related to revocation of suspended sentences or parole.
(Prior code § 12-1-20)

2.56.170 - Statutory powers and responsibilities.
The positions and office created by this article shall have all those powers, duties, responsibilities and obligations as provided for in Chapter 490 of the Private Acts of 1947, except where specifically changed by this article.
(Prior code § 12-1-24)

2.56.180 - Investigation of petitioners for suspended sentences or paroles—Reports.
A.
Upon the filing of a petition for a suspended sentence or parole, and provided the requirements and provisions of Chapter 591 of the Public Acts of 1989, as amended, have been complied with, such petition shall be referred to the parole and probation office, and the parole and probation office shall, as soon as possible thereafter, make a full investigation of the averments of the petition, the circumstances, history, criminal record, and the social, physical and mental condition of the petitioner, and shall file a written report setting out in detail the results of such investigation. A copy of such written report shall be furnished each of the criminal judges and the district attorney general.
B.
No petition for a suspended sentence or parole shall be considered by the criminal courts unless and until the provisions of Chapter 591 of the Public Acts of 1959, and the provisions of this article, have been fully complied with, and unless and until a written report of the parole and probation office has been filed and copies furnished as hereinabove provided.
*History: Ord. 90-1339 § 1 (12-1), prior code § 12-1-21

2.56.190 - Supervision of parolees.
The parole and probation office shall interview and visit, from time to time, persons paroled or released under suspended sentences by the criminal judges, shall supervise, investigate, check on and report to such judges and the district attorney general the actions, conduct, behavior and progress of such persons, and may require the parolee to report to such parole and probation office at regular intervals. It shall aid all such persons in the amendment of their ways and in rehabilitating them, shall assist in securing employment for them, and shall aid and assist them in every possible way, to the end that such persons shall become and remain law-abiding citizens.
(Prior code § 12-1-22)

Article V. - Traffic Violations Bureau
2.56.200 - Created—Authority of clerk of the metropolitan court.
A.
There is created a traffic violations bureau, which shall be under the control and supervision of the clerk of the metropolitan court.
B.
All clerks and other employees of the traffic violations bureau shall be the employees of the clerk of the metropolitan court.
(Prior code § 12-1-11)

2.56.210 - Powers and duties.
The traffic violations bureau, pursuant to and in conformity with the rules and regulations prescribed by the metropolitan court, shall perform the following duties and functions: A.
Receive bail or bond from and issue receipts to all persons accused of violating the traffic ordinances or traffic regulations of the city;
B.
Prepare warrants, subpoenas, capiases or any other process in connection with the trial or disposition of all cases wherein a violation of traffic ordinances or traffic regulations of the metropolitan government is charged;
C.
Keep an easily accessible and properly arranged record of all arrests, convictions or violations of traffic ordinances or traffic regulations, including such explanatory data as will reflect the disposition made of such cases. Such records shall be kept current for a period of twelve months, and may thereafter be kept in the closed files or archives of the bureau;
D.
Submit summarized monthly reports to the judges of the metropolitan court and to the finance director of the metropolitan government of all cases involving violations of traffic ordinances or traffic regulations, which monthly reports shall contain a statement of all money collected by the traffic violations bureau, and shall further indicate the disposition of such cases by the metropolitan court and the traffic violations bureau;
E.
All money collected by or paid into the traffic violations bureau shall be transmitted daily to the clerk of the metropolitan court;
F.
The traffic violations bureau shall obtain and furnish the police department with suitable forms in triplicate serially numbered for notifying traffic violators to appear in answer to charges of violating traffic ordinances or traffic regulations of the city. The traffic violations bureau shall take receipts for such forms delivered to the police department and shall require a report from the police department on the disposition of such forms, which report shall be kept available at all times for inspection by the judge of the metropolitan court and the finance director or his authorized representative. Alternatively, the traffic violations bureau, police department, parking enforcement patrol and its contractors may utilize electronic forms for notifying traffic violators to appear in answer to charges of violating traffic ordinances or traffic regulations of the city, so long as there are equivalent ways to ensure that such forms are retained in duplicate copy (which may also be in electronic form) as reliably as the method specified above.
*History: Ord. BL2021-646 § 2, 2021; prior code § 12-1-12

Article VI. - Probate Court—County Judge
2.56.300 - Alcohol Diversion and Preventive Treatment (ADAPT) program supervisory authority.
The supervision, control and budget of the ADAPT Program is transferred from the State Trial Courts of Davidson County to the probate court of Davidson County.
*History: Ord. 91-97 § 1, 1992

Article VII. - Justice Integration Services
2.56.400 - Creation.
There is hereby created the justice integration services of the metropolitan government (JIS).
*History: Ord. BL2003-42 § 1, 2003; Ord. 92-415 § 1, 1992

2.56.410 - Purpose.
The purpose of the JIS is to improve the administration of justice through the creation and operation of comprehensive integrated management information systems and to promulgate and implement minimum uniform standards for all participating agencies. The goals to be accomplished are to: (1) create a modern simplified system or systems for managing justice information; (2) provide quick and easy access to information; (3) expedite case processing; (4) enhance productivity and efficiency by the use of technology; (5) reduce costs and increase revenue; and (6) plan for future needs.
*History: Ord. 92-415 § 2, 1992

2.56.420 - Membership.
Those eligible for membership in JIS are all metropolitan government elected and/or appointed officials, departments, and/or agencies involved in the administration of justice, including, but not limited to the following: Chancery court judges, circuit court clerk, circuit court judges, clerk and master, criminal court clerk, criminal court judges, district attorney general, juvenile court clerk, juvenile court judge, metropolitan general sessions court judges, probate court judge, public defender, police department, sheriff, criminal justice planning unit, and office of family safety.
*History: Ord. BL2016-311 § 2, 2016; Amdt. 1 to Ord. 92-415, 10/6/92; Ord. 92-415 § 3, 1992

2.56.430 - Policy committee.
The policy committee will be the primary decision and policy making entity of the JIS. The policy committee shall coordinate, approve and implement the design, development and operation of the JIS. Only members of the JIS shall be eligible to serve on the policy committee. The policy committee shall adopt bylaws to provide for the governance of the JIS.
*History: Ord. 92-415 § 4, 1992

2.56.440 - Presiding officer.
Pursuant to the bylaws, the members of JIS shall select a presiding officer who shall act as the administrative head of JIS and who shall serve in that capacity for a term established by the bylaws.
*History: Ord. 92-415 § 5, 1992

2.56.450 - Powers.
The JIS shall have the power to: A.
Establish bylaws, policies, procedures and standards for the development and ongoing management of justice related information systems which will be integrated;
B.
Enforce the bylaws, procedures, policies and standards set by the JIS;
C.
Provide a centralized mechanism for the acquisition and maintenance of all justice related automated solutions;
D.
Employ such persons and maintain such facilities as are necessary to exercise the powers and perform the duties of JIS within its budgetary limitations;
E.
In conformity with applicable legal requirements of the metropolitan government, authorize or enter into contracts and purchase or lease such equipment, software, services and supplies as necessary to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the JIS; and
F.
Take such other actions as are necessary to further the purpose of the JIS.
*History: Ord. 92-415 § 6, 1992

2.56.460 - Duties.
The JIS shall have the duty to: A.
Provide assistance to each of the JIS participating agencies in assessing their automation needs;
B.
Provide an accounting of revenues collected by JIS on behalf of each participating agency (when amounts are attributable to a participating agency);
C.
Provide each JIS agency with supportive services in the form of installation, training and maintenance for JIS approved hardware and software which is not shared between two or more JIS agencies;
D.
Provide each JIS agency with supportive services in the form of installation, training, electronic back-up and maintenance for hardware, software and data that is shared between two or more JIS agencies;
E.
Provide services to ensure data integrity within the parameters established by the policy committee; and
F.
Insure that all automated solutions conform to the general government-wide standards of the metropolitan government and participate in the formulation and revision of those standards.
*History: Ord. 92-415 § 7, 1992

2.56.470 - Exemption.
All employees of the JIS shall be exempt from the classified service and from civil service regulations.
*History: Ord. 92-415 § 8, 1992

Article VIII. - Traffic Safety School and DUI School[3]
2.56.500 - Creation of general sessions court traffic safety school.
There shall be established, under supervision of the general sessions court, a school to be known as the general sessions court traffic safety school.
*History: Ord. BL2010-687 § 1, 2010

2.56.510 - Traffic safety school eligibility.
In addition to all other fines, fees, costs and punishments now prescribed by law, the driver of any motor vehicle upon his conviction by any judge or plea of guilty or submission to fine for any offense involving a moving traffic violation prescribed by law may be required, at the discretion of the court, to attend a traffic safety school approved by the Tennessee Department of Safety in addition to, or in lieu of, any portion of any other penalty imposed.
*History: Ord. BL2010-687 § 1, 2010

2.56.520 - Traffic safety school staffing and records.
The traffic safety school shall maintain training agency status with the National Safety Council. The traffic safety school shall be staffed with administrative personnel and instructors. All instructors shall be certified by the National Safety Council. The traffic safety school shall maintain records showing the names of attendees, dates of attendance, and whether such attendees satisfactorily completed the course.
*History: Ord. BL2010-687 § 1, 2010

2.56.530 - Traffic safety school fee.
The traffic safety school is authorized to charge a fee of up to ninety dollars for enrollment in each traffic safety class. The traffic school is authorized to charge a fee of up to thirty-five dollars for rescheduling a missed class.
*History: Ord. BL2010-687 § 1, 2010

2.56.540 - Permissible use of traffic safety school fees collected.
All fees collected for the traffic safety school shall be deposited in the general fund of the general services district to assist in covering the expenditures for instructor salaries, equipment, and materials.
*History: Ord. BL2010-687 § 1, 2010

2.56.550 - Creation of sheriffs office DUI school.
There shall be established, under supervision of the Davidson County Sheriffs Office, a school to be known as the DUI school. All persons attending the school shall pay an enrollment fee in an amount up to two hundred twenty dollars per class to offset the costs of referral, screening, and education services. Different levels of classes may carry different enrollment fees, but no enrollment fee shall exceed two hundred twenty dollars. The DUI school shall be responsible for all documentation and reports required by state and local law, including reports to the general sessions court, criminal trial courts, circuit courts, and their designated probation departments. The sheriffs office is authorized to charge a fee of up to twenty dollars for rescheduling a missed session. The sheriffs office is authorized to charge an additional administrative fee of up to thirty-five dollars if individuals are referred to treatment by the DUI school. Persons referred to the DUI school for an alcohol and drug assessment only shall pay a fee of up to fifty dollars to the DUI school for coordination, processing, and completion of the assessment.
*History: Ord. BL2010-687 § 1, 2010

2.56.560 - DUI school staffing and records.
The Davidson County Sheriffs Office shall maintain DUI school licensure requirements with the State of Tennessee, Tennessee Department of Health, or other State of Tennessee agencies designated to license qualified DUI schools. The sheriffs office shall furnish instructors and other administrative personnel to staff the DUI school and maintain records in compliance with state regulations for DUI schools.
*History: Ord. BL2010-687 § 1, 2010

2.56.570 - Permissible use of DUI school fees collected.
All fees collected for the DUI school shall be deposited in the general fund of the general services district to assist in covering the expenditures for instructor salaries, equipment, and materials.
*History: Ord. BL2010-687 § 1, 2010

Article IX. - Pre-Trial Release Program
2.56.600 - Pre-trial release program.
Pursuant to T.C.A. Sections 7-2-108(a)(13) and 8-8-201(33), the Davidson County sheriff's office is authorized to administer the operation of the metropolitan government's pre-trial release program which was created pursuant to T.C.A. Section 40-11-116 and the metropolitan government's long range plan concerning jail overcrowding.
*History: Ord. BL2003-100 § 1, 2004

2.56.610 - Supervision fee—Exemption.
A.
The Davidson County sheriff's office is authorized to charge each defendant who is not exempt under subsection B of this section, a processing fee of thirty-five dollars. The said fee shall be collected by the Davidson County sheriff's pre-trial release program in order to defray operational costs.
B.
The Davidson County sheriff's office is authorized to certify criminal defendants as indigent for the purposes of exempting such persons from the processing fee as provided in subsection A of this section.
(Amdt. 1 to Ord. BL2003-100 § 3, 1/21/04; Ord. BL2003-100 §§ 2, 3, 2004)
