2.10.010 - Office established.
There is hereby created the office of emergency management which shall be a division of the office of the mayor. All employees of this office, including the director of the office of emergency management and all other staff members, shall be under the management and control of the mayor.
*History: Ord. 94-1074 § 1, 1994

2.10.020 - Duties of office.
The duties of the office of emergency management shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following: (1) to promote, coordinate, and direct a comprehensive emergency management program which addresses mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery relative to disasters and major emergencies; (2) to develop a basic emergency management plan, which shall be exercised and updated annually, in compliance with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations; (3) to provide public information, education, and promotion of mitigation activities; (4) responsible for water activities; (5) and other activities related to the establishment of a comprehensive emergency management program.
*History: Ord. 97-927 § 1, 1997; Ord. 94-1074 § 2, 1994

2.10.030 - Personnel.
All employees of the office of the mayor assigned to this program as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be transferred to the office of emergency management and shall continue to be in the unclassified service.
*History: Ord. 94-1074 § 3, 1994

2.10.040 - Emergency support unit.
A.
The emergency support unit (ESU) of the office of emergency management is created. The ESU shall be composed of volunteers to augment regular emergency management services provided by the office of emergency management during periods of actual or threatened emergencies, search and recovery operations, and public events.
B.
The director shall be responsible for the supervision of the ESU and shall promulgate rules and regulations which will establish membership requirements, and the duties and responsibilities of its members.
*History: Ord. 97-927 § 2 (part), 1997

2.10.050 - Emergency management council.
A.
An emergency management council is created to advise and assist the office of emergency management in the administration of its duties including the development of an emergency management plan. This council shall be composed of representatives of each affected department, agency and commission of metropolitan government, as well as related volunteer, civic, business and industry representatives. These representatives shall be appointed by the director or department head of the affected department, agency or commission, or the management of the organization or business. All volunteer, civic, business and industry appointments shall be approved by the emergency management director. The members of the emergency management council shall serve without compensation and shall operate in an advisory capacity.
B.
This council shall be chaired by the director and shall establish rules and subcommittees as necessary to advise, assist and otherwise promote comprehensive, community-wide involvement in emergency management. This council shall recommend appropriate policies and procedures for inclusion in the emergency management plan.
*History: Ord. 97-927 § 2 (part), 1997

2.10.060 - Interfering with emergency management officials unlawful.
It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of the office of emergency management in the discharge or apparent discharge of his duties imposed by the provisions of this chapter.
*History: Ord. 97-927 § 2 (part), 1997

2.10.070 - "Nashville KNOWS" program.
A.
Using existing resources, the office of emergency management shall be responsible for the initiation and implementation of a program to be called "Nashville KNOWS." The "Nashville KNOWS" program shall be designed to maximize resources and efforts to prepare the citizens of Nashville regarding:
1.
The steps to take in advance and in preparation of emergency situations; and
2.
Responses and actions that should be taken in the event of various types of emergency situations.
B.
The office of emergency management shall be the agency responsible for the implementation of the "Nashville KNOWS" program, which shall be focused on reaching out and informing Nashvillians about emergency response through, but not limited to, the initiation of a public relations campaign for the city, the conducting of neighborhood meetings at neighborhood sites, and the teaching of educational programs in the public schools.
C.
The office of emergency management shall provide to the mayor and the members of the metropolitan council, on or before January 31 of each year, a report of its activities conducted in accordance with the provisions of this section during the preceding year.
*History: Ord. BL2006-954 § 1, 2006
