(Commissions)
2.144.010 - Authority to use the name "metropolitan social services."
The metropolitan welfare commission of the metropolitan government is authorized to use the name "metropolitan social services," and to use such name in the performance of its functions and the transactions of its business.
(Prior code § 2-1-101.4)

2.144.020 - Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council established—Membership.
A.
The Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care was established pursuant to federal regulations, including 24 C.F.R. Part 578, to create a collaborative, inclusive, community-based/inspired process and approach to planning and managing effective homeless assistance resources and programs to end homelessness in our community.
B.
For the purpose of facilitating the process and approach of the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care, there is established the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council.
C.
The Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council shall be composed as follows:
1.
Twenty-five voting members. Eight members shall be appointed by the metropolitan mayor. Fourteen members shall be elected by the full membership of the Nashville-Davidson County Continuum of Care in accordance with its Governance Charter. Five of the voting members shall have lived homelessness experience. Three members shall be either members of the metropolitan council or the metropolitan vice mayor, selected by the metropolitan vice mayor, who shall be non-voting members.
2.
Designated advisors. Either upon request of the metropolitan mayor or the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council, the metropolitan mayor shall designate up to two advisors to assist the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council in carrying out its duties. The designated advisors shall be employees of departments of the metropolitan government that interact with individuals experiencing homelessness. These advisors are not permanent members of the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council and are not eligible to vote.
3.
The initial slate of voting members shall be the existing voting members of the Metropolitan Homelessness Commission and the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Governance Board. These members shall be divided into three classes, with terms expiring after one, two, and three years, respectively. Subsequent voting members shall serve three year terms. The number of members in each class shall be specified in the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Governance Charter.
4.
Attendance requirements. A regular and publicized meeting schedule of the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council shall be kept. The Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Charter shall have an attendance requirement for the governance board. All Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council members shall comply with the attendance requirements specified in the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Charter. If a voting member, appointed or selected, fails to meet the attendance requirements specified in the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Charter, the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council may make recommendation to the metropolitan mayor to remove that member by two-thirds vote. The vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the initial appointment.
D.
The Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council shall serve as an independent body and shall be empowered to make decisions and recommendations as the governance board for the Nashville-Davidson County Continuum of Care, as required by 24 C.F.R. Part 578.
E.
The Metropolitan Homelessness Commission staff shall be known as the Metro Homeless Impact Division and shall be housed within the office of homeless services. The Metro Homeless Impact Division shall provide staff and resources to assist the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council in carrying out the duties and responsibilities established by this chapter.
*History: Ord. BL2024-582 § 3, 2024; Ord. BL2021-971 § 2, 2022; Ord. BL2018-1199 § 1, 2018; Ord. BL2014-777 § 1, 2014

2.144.030 - Duties and responsibilities of Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council.
The Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council shall have the following duties and responsibilities: A.
To implement a coordinated and focused approach to ending homelessness and to develop measurable objectives;
B.
To fulfill all duties and responsibilities as the governance board for the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care, including compliance with 24 C.F.R. Part 578;
C.
To hold regular meetings open to the public with published agendas;
D.
To assure participation of all stakeholders, including persons experiencing homelessness;
E.
To maintain accurate, current data on homeless populations; and
F.
To educate the public, service providers, and other interested parties on issues related to homelessness.
*History: Ord. BL2018-1199 § 2, 2018; Ord. BL2014-777 § 2, 2014

2.144.040 - [Association with government.]
The metropolitan homelessness commission is not and shall not be deemed to be a board or commission of the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County.
*History: Ord. BL2014-777 § 3, 2014

2.144.050 - Cold weather response annual plan.
The Metropolitan Social Services Commission shall adopt an annual plan detailing the provision of an overflow shelter for the homeless population in Nashville during cold weather. This annual plan shall include an assessment of the projected needs in Nashville for the upcoming year, as well as analysis and recommendations for metro's response and whether current funding will meet the projected needs. The annual plan shall be submitted to council by May 31 of each year.
*History: Ord. BL2019-74 § 1, 2019
