Article I. - General Regulations
2.40.010 - Control of department—Metropolitan attorney powers and duties—Docket of suits.
It shall be the duty of the metropolitan attorney, with the assistance provided for him, to take control of and appear for and represent the metropolitan government in all suits in any of the courts of record. He shall keep a docket of all suits, in which each case shall be entered by its proper title, the court in which it is pending, the names of all the parties, the nature and character of the case and such information as may be important to be known in regard thereto. He shall deliver such docket to his successor in office or, if there be no successor, to the mayor.
(Prior code § 2-1-7)

2.40.020 - Assistant metropolitan attorneys.
Two positions of assistant metropolitan attorney, in addition to the four positions of assistant metropolitan attorney created by Section 8.605 of the Metropolitan Charter, are created pursuant to Section 8.605 of the Metropolitan Charter. The metropolitan attorney is authorized to hire and appoint the two additional assistant metropolitan attorneys, subject to the approval of the mayor.
(Prior code § 2-1-15)

2.40.030 - Court stenographer and brief printer.
The metropolitan attorney is authorized to employ the services of a first-class stenographer or court reporter, whenever necessary, for the purpose of taking down in writing all evidence in any suit now pending or that may hereafter be brought against the metropolitan government or in which the metropolitan government is or may become a party, and likewise to take down any charge or order made or delivered by the court in such suits. The metropolitan attorney is likewise authorized to have briefs printed in any case wherein the metropolitan government is involved. Such stenographer or court reporter and such brief printer shall be paid his right and just charges for the services he performs, out of the metropolitan government treasury, upon the presentation of a bill for his services, duly approved by the metropolitan attorney.
(Prior code § 2-1-10)

2.40.040 - Representation of metropolitan government outside metropolitan government area—Reimbursement for expenses.
It shall be the duty of the metropolitan attorney or one of his assistants designated by him to attend in person to any business of the metropolitan government to be transacted in court, or otherwise, beyond the limits of the metropolitan government area, and his traveling or other incidental expenses arising legitimately from such metropolitan government business shall be paid out of the metropolitan government treasury.
(Prior code § 2-1-9)

2.40.050 - Execution of bonds for costs, judgments and other actions.
The metropolitan attorney and the deputy metropolitan attorney are authorized to execute, on behalf of the metropolitan government, as principal, any and all bonds for costs, judgments, injunction bonds or any other bonds required to be made in connection with litigation in which the metropolitan government or its officers, commissions, boards or agencies are concerned in their official capacity.
(Prior code § 2-1-8)

2.40.060 - Updating statutory references in metropolitan code of laws.
The metropolitan attorney is authorized from time to time to update references to sections of Tennessee Code Annotated appearing in the Metropolitan Code of Laws when such sections are renumbered, such updated reference to be approved by resolution.
*History: Ord. 90-1339 § 1(2-1), 1990; prior code § 2-1-8.1

2.40.070 - Eligibility for employment contracts—Term of contract.
A.
All attorneys employed by the metropolitan government pursuant to Article 8, Chapter 6 of the Metropolitan Charter shall be eligible to contract with the metropolitan government for legal services subject to the qualifications and requirements of subsection B of this section.
B.
Any attorney, as defined in subsection A of this section, shall meet the following qualifications to be eligible to contract with the metropolitan government for legal services:
1.
Two years' practice in municipal law with the metropolitan government;
2.
The attorney must receive the approval of the director of law, the mayor, and the metropolitan council. Approval by the metropolitan council shall be by resolution setting forth the terms and conditions of the contract. The contract authorized herein shall under no circumstances exceed two years in length.
C.
This section shall apply only to attorneys of the metropolitan government as defined in subsection A of this section and shall not apply to private attorneys employed by the metropolitan council of the metropolitan government pursuant to Section 8.607 of the Metropolitan Charter.
(Prior code § 2-1-15.2)

2.40.080 - Delinquent tax reports transmitted to department.
It shall be the duty of the metropolitan trustee to transmit to the department of law a balanced and reconciled report of all real property taxes or tax equivalents due the metropolitan government for the general services district and the urban services district, which taxes or tax equivalents have become six months' delinquent. Prior to such transmittal, there shall be an internal audit by the division of accounts.
(Prior code § 2-1-13)

2.40.090 - Division of tax litigation.
A.
There shall be a division of tax litigation, under the direction and supervision of the metropolitan attorney or such deputy or assistant as the metropolitan attorney, in his discretion, may direct.
B.
It shall be the duty of the department of law, in and through the division of tax litigation, to obtain from the metropolitan trustee a balanced and reconciled report of delinquent real property taxes or tax equivalents of the general services district and the urban services district as otherwise provided in the Metropolitan Charter or by ordinance. In accordance with rules and regulations to be established by the metropolitan attorney, the department of law shall make every reasonable effort to collect such delinquent taxes or tax equivalents, and it shall be the duty of the department of law, in and through the division of tax litigation, to prepare and file all suits for the collection of delinquent real property taxes or tax equivalents due the metropolitan government for the general services district and the urban services district, and to proceed to collect such delinquent real property taxes or tax equivalents in accordance with the provisions of the Metropolitan Charter, together with such other authority as may be provided by the general law, private act or ordinance.
C.
In the division of tax litigation, there shall be a chief clerk and such clerical assistants as the metropolitan attorney, with the approval of the mayor, may determine necessary. The back-tax clerk of the former county attorney shall be the first chief clerk of this division.
D.
The personnel of the division of tax litigation shall, under the supervision of the metropolitan attorney, prepare the necessary court pleadings for tax suits, distress warrants, decrees and other documents necessary and proper for the prosecution of tax litigation and the maintenance of office records with regard thereto.
(Prior code § 2-1-14)

2.40.100 - Settlement of claims against metropolitan government and its employees.
The metropolitan attorney, after consultation with the applicable department head or delegee, is authorized to settle any property damage claim against the metropolitan government for an amount not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars, and any other type of claim against the metropolitan government or any official, whether elected or appointed, officer, employee, or member of a board or commission of the metropolitan government who was acting on behalf of the metropolitan government for purposes of the claim, for an amount not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars.
(Amdt. 1 to Ord. BL2025-770 § 1, 2025; Ord. BL2025-770 § 1, 2025; Amdt. 1 to Ord. 96-154, 1/16/96; Ord. 96-154 § 1, 1996)

2.40.110 - Settlement of claims for damage to metropolitan government property.
The department of law, after consultation with the applicable department head or delegee, is authorized to settle all claims for damages to metropolitan government property caused by the negligent or unlawful acts of others, for an amount not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars. If the funds for any settlement come from the operating budget of the applicable department, notice shall be provided in writing to the department head. Upon settlement of such claims, the proceeds derived therefrom shall be paid into the metropolitan government treasury in accordance with the procedure established by the Charter or the director of finance pursuant thereto.
(Amdt. 1 to Ord. BL2025-770 § 2, 2025; Ord. BL2025-770 § 2, 2025; prior code § 2-1-12)

2.40.115 - Reporting significant litigation and judgments.
A.
Quarterly report of significant litigation: Within sixty days after the end of each calendar quarter, for all suits in which an attorney in the department of law is counsel of record for the metropolitan government, or the department of law has hired or is supervising an outside attorney as counsel of record for the metropolitan government, the metropolitan attorney shall report to the metropolitan council if the suit includes claims being asserted against the metropolitan government that seek a total amount greater than three hundred thousand dollars. Each quarterly report shall include the names of the parties, the court in which the case is pending, the case number, the nature of the claims, the amount of damages sought, any other remedies being sought against the metropolitan government, and the name of counsel of record for the metropolitan government. If outside counsel is engaged in the matter, the report shall also include the hourly rate of the attorneys involved and the total amount of funding paid, including attorneys fees and expenses, as of the date the report is submitted.
B.
Report of judgments entered against the metropolitan government: The metropolitan attorney shall report to the metropolitan council all judgments entered against the metropolitan government within sixty days after the date that the judgment becomes final. Such report shall include, but not be limited to, the names of the parties, the court in which the case is pending, the case number, the amount of the judgment, and a summary of the facts giving rise to the lawsuit.
C.
Reports of environmental court cases:
1.
The department of law shall provide a copy of the civil warrant docket of division IV of the metropolitan general sessions court ("environmental court") to the metropolitan council as soon as practicable upon its release. The docket shall include the name and address of each defendant and a description of all code violations, including the property address and date or dates of the code violations.
2.
Within fifteen days of submission of any final environmental court orders, the department of law shall provide written notice to the metropolitan council of any fines in excess of fifty dollars issued to a defendant for violations of the Metropolitan Code of Laws. The notice shall include the name and address of the defendant, description and date or dates of the violations, and the amount of the fines.
*History: Ord. BL2025-948 § 1, 2025; Amdt. 1 to Ord. BL2025-770 § 3, 2025; Ord. BL2025-770 § 3, 2025; Ord. BL2016-220 § 1, 2016; Ord. BL2004-428 § 1, 2004

Article II. - Employee Defense and Indemnification
2.40.120 - Employee defined.
"Employee," as used in this article, means and includes any official, whether elected or appointed, officer, employee, or any member of a board or commission of the metropolitan government.
(Prior code § 32-1-85)

2.40.130 - Defense counsel to employees—Conditions and procedures.
A.
The metropolitan government authorizes its department of law to furnish defense counsel to any employee against whom a claim is asserted arising out of the employee's acts or omissions taken on behalf of the metropolitan government for purposes of the claim, provided the employee promptly notifies the department of law when suit is served upon the employee, makes a request to the department of law for defense counsel, cooperates with the defense counsel furnished, and has no insurance coverage protecting the employee from damages up to the amounts provided hereafter in this section.
B.
In those civil actions wherein:
1.
The metropolitan government and one or more of its employees are defendants, or two or more employees are defendants; and
2.
The director of law determines that Rule 1.7 of the Tennessee Rules of Professional Conduct, as adopted by rule 8 of the Rules of the Tennessee Supreme Court, prohibits the department of law from representing the employee; and
3.
The employee would otherwise be entitled to the defense provided for in subsection A of this section; then the employee shall be entitled to employ counsel as provided for in subsection C of this section.
C.
In those matters wherein an employee meets the criteria for defense counsel in subsections A and B, the director of law shall authorize reimbursement to the employee of the reasonable fees and expenses incurred in the employee's defense, subject to any applicable regulations promulgated by the director of finance. The director of finance, in consultation with the director of law, shall promulgate regulations concerning reimbursement of fees and expenses, including, but not limited to, the hourly rate, the nature and timing of billing, and requirements for prior approval for extraordinary expenses.
*History: Ord. BL2025-770 §§ 4, 5, 2025; Ord. BL2005-707 § 1, 2005; Ord. 93-578 § 1, 1993; prior code § 32-1-86

2.40.140 - Employee indemnification authorized when.
A.
The metropolitan government is authorized to indemnify an employee from a judgment against the employee to an amount as provided hereafter if:
1.
The judgment results from an act or omission of the employee taken on behalf of the metropolitan government;
2.
The employee was furnished defense counsel at the metropolitan government's expense, and the employee has cooperated with that defense counsel;
3.
The employee has no insurance coverage protecting the employee from damages up to the amounts provided hereafter in this section; and
4.
The judgment results from a legal claim challenging conduct that did not constitute a flagrant violation of law or policy, as determined by the employee's department, board, commission, or agency head and the director of law, in their discretion.
B.
The director of law and the head of the department, board, commission, or agency in which the employee is employed shall have the discretion to determine what amount, if any, an employee may be indemnified, subject to Section 8.103(e) of the Metropolitan Charter, but in no event shall such indemnity exceed two hundred thousand dollars for each person injured or property damaged in one incident or accident, and four hundred thousand dollars for all personal injuries and property damage in one incident or accident.
*History: Ord. BL2025-770 §§ 6, 7, 2025; prior code § 32-1-87

Article III. - Risk Management
2.40.150 - Direction—Functions and divisions designated.
A.
The functions of the department of risk management, as set out in Ordinance 81-569, are placed under the department of law under the direction of the director of law. The functions previously performed by the department of risk management shall be divided into two divisions in the department of law:
1.
The claims division; and
2.
The insurance division.
B.
The claims division shall be under the direction of the director of law or such attorney or attorneys in the department of law as he shall direct. The insurance division shall be under the direction of an individual appointed by the director of law, subject to the approval of the mayor, who shall have experience in the insurance field as determined by the job description for that position.
C.
The head of the insurance division shall make his reports and recommendations to the metropolitan county mayor, such reports and recommendations being addressed to the metropolitan county mayor and forwarded to the metropolitan county mayor by the director of law. The two divisions shall consist of such employees as may be provided herein and allowed by subsequent budget appropriations.
*History: Ord. 95-1446 §§ 1, 2, 1995; prior code § 2-1-15.3(a)

2.40.160 - Positions and personnel.
All positions and personnel assigned to the department of risk management shall be transferred to the department of law on October 18, 1983, the effective date of this section.
(Prior code § 2-1-15.3(b))

2.40.170 - Appointment of employees.
The director of law shall appoint all employees to the two divisions. All clerical positions shall be civil service positions. All professional positions shall be non-civil service positions if so stated in the ordinance creating the position, otherwise such positions shall be civil service positions.
(Prior code § 2-1-15.3(c))

2.40.180 - Allocation of funds.
The director of finance and the budget officer are authorized to provide, as a basis for budgetary operation for the 1983-1984 fiscal year, to the department of law any appropriation and allocated balances in the 1983-1984 budget that may have previously been designated to the department of risk management.
(Prior code § 2-1-15.3(d))

2.40.190 - Powers, duties and responsibilities.
The duties, responsibilities and authority formerly assigned to the department of risk management and now transferred to the department of law include, but shall not be limited to: A.
Direct the risk and loss-prevention measures of all departments and agencies of the metropolitan government by identifying areas having risk and loss potential; analyze and evaluate risk and loss exposure and determine alternate methods of handling them; establish a reporting system of identified risk and loss areas to the various departments and agencies;
B.
Purchase insurance where necessary in accordance with the purchasing procedures of the metropolitan government, except in those areas where purchasing procedures are expressly exempted by state statute; assist the division of purchasing in the development of bid specifications when insurance and surety bonds are bid; advise the purchasing agent in the placement of all insurance and bond coverages;
C.
Conduct inspections and establish loss-prevention programs;
D.
Centralize all casualty and property insurance programs of the metropolitan government; consult with and advise the various departments and agencies on all aspects of property and casualty insurance; develop and maintain levels of retention for those areas where insurance coverage is purchased;
E.
Determine those areas where self-insurance is advisable; design, subject to the approval of the director of finance, any self-insurance programs, and administer such programs;
F.
Review all contracts and leases to determine risk and loss exposure to the metropolitan government and recommend methods of risk and loss transfer or risk and loss avoidance;
G.
Maintain all records necessary for effective risk and loss management and insurance management, including but not limited to copies of policies, loss and claims reports and loss statistics, and review all contracts and leases where loss exposure exists;
H.
Investigate claims made on behalf of the metropolitan government and claims made against the metropolitan government;
I.
Cooperate with the department of finance on matters dealing with funds and/or funding in the processing of claim settlement drafts.
*History: Ord. 95-1446 § 3, 1995; prior code § 2-1-15.3(e)

2.40.200 - Administrative memorandums of understanding.
The department of law, by and through the director of law, shall have authority to enter into memorandums of understanding with other metropolitan agencies for the administration of the insurance, self-insurance, claims and safety programs of other agencies when so requested by other agencies. Any fees derived by the department of law for providing these services shall be paid into the general fund of the general services district. All memorandums of understanding entered into by the department of risk management are transferred to the department of law.
(Prior code § 2-1-15.3(f))

Article IV. - Employee Safety Program
2.40.210 - Creation of division of employee safety.
There shall be a division of employee safety in the department of human resources. The division of employee safety shall be under the direction and control of the director of human resources.
*History: Ord. BL2021-753 § 1, 2021; Ord. BL2006-1232 § 2, 2006

2.40.220 - Appointment of employees.
The director of human resources shall have the authority within budgetary guidelines to appoint all employees to the division of employee safety. All clerical positions shall be civil service positions. All professional positions shall be non-civil service positions if so stated in the ordinance creating the position, otherwise such positions shall be civil service positions.
*History: Ord. BL2021-753 § 2, 2021; Ord. BL2006-1232 § 2, 2006

2.40.230 - Compliance with occupational health and safety standards.
The division of employee safety shall develop, implement, and administer a program of compliance with the occupational health and safety standards of the State of Tennessee. The division of employee safety, in conjunction with the Metropolitan Safety Advisory Board, shall develop general policies and standards to establish a framework within which specific department, board, commission, and agency safety programs are developed to minimize hazards and reduce injuries in their operations and to comply with the occupational health and safety standards of the State of Tennessee.
*History: Ord. BL2006-1232 § 2, 2006

2.40.240 - Functions of division of employee safety.
The division of employee safety shall administer, direct and coordinate the following functions: 1.
The central employee safety program of the metropolitan government including working with all departments, each of which shall be responsible for establishing its own safety program;
2.
In coordination with each department's own rules and regulations on employee safety, promulgation of rules, regulations and procedures relating to the safe premises, equipment and environment of metropolitan government employees;
3.
Maintenance and preservation of all necessary records regarding employee safety required under law by the state or by the federal government;
4.
Investigation of in-line-of-duty injury claims for the purpose of determining the cause of the injuries and preventing similar injuries in the future.
*History: Ord. BL2006-1232 § 2, 2006

2.40.250 - Support of safety program.
Departments, boards, commissions, agencies, officers, and employees of the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County shall support the employee safety program.
*History: Ord. BL2006-1232 § 2, 2006

2.40.260 - Reports and recommendations on safety.
The director of human resources will make safety reports and recommendations, including the progress in improved safety in the workplace, to the metropolitan mayor.
*History: Ord. BL2021-753 § 3, 2021; Ord. BL2006-1232 § 2, 2006
