Sec. 10.201. - Metropolitan board of hospitals—Created.
There shall be a metropolitan board of hospitals, which sometimes in this article is called the "board." The board shall administer and control hospitals for the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County as herein provided.

Sec. 10.202. - Same—Qualifications, term and selection of members.
The board shall be composed of seven (7) members. Three (3) members shall be doctors of medicine certified for practice as such by the state board of medical examiners and licensed by the state licensing board for the healing arts, and each of whom shall have had not less than five (5) years' experience in the active practice of his or her profession. One of said doctors of medicine shall also have had special training, practice and experience in the field of psychiatric medicine. One member shall be a registered nurse. The three remaining members of the board shall be chosen without reference to occupation or profession. Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
The members of the board shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by a majority of the whole membership of the council. They shall serve terms of five years each, provided that of the first seven members, two shall serve for five years, one for four years, two for three years, one for two years and one for one year. Any vacancy other than by expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 10.203. - Same—Functions.
The board of hospitals, through the director of hospitals, shall exercise all the administrative functions of the metropolitan government pertaining to the operation of all institutions owned, maintained or operated by the metropolitan government for the examination, treatment, convalescence or detention of the sick, injured or physically or mentally ill. Said board shall determine and establish the policies to be followed in the exercise of its function and it may receive, accept and provide for the use of funds from any governmental agency, by any public or private institution or by any individual.

Sec. 10.204. - Director of hospitals—Appointment and qualifications.
The board of hospitals shall appoint a director of hospitals, herein sometimes called "director," and may enter into an employment contract with such person for a period not exceeding five (5) years, and at a compensation to be fixed by the board. The director shall be a person who has had at least five (5) years' experience in hospital administration or at least ten (10) years' experience in some other executive or major administrative position.

Sec. 10.205. - Same—Powers and duties.
The director shall be the chief administrative officer of the board of hospitals. He or she shall be responsible to the board for the administration and execution of its program and policies. Within the policies set forth by the board, he or she shall have general management and control of all hospitals and institutions administered by the board. With the approval of the board, pursuant to established personnel policies, and subject to the provisions of this article, he or she shall appoint and remove the other officers and employees of the board. He or she shall have such other powers and duties as may be authorized by general law, by this Charter or by ordinance.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 10.206. - Personnel rules and regulations of the board of hospitals.
The board of hospitals shall establish, adopt and make available for distribution its rules, regulations and policy statement concerning its personnel policy, the manner and method of employing personnel, the requirements with reference to the qualifications of both professional and nonprofessional personnel, salaries, vacations, sick leave, job security, retirement policy, and other related terms and conditions of employment by the board.
The board shall constitute a civil service board with respect to employees of said board for the purpose of section 12.09 of this Charter and for the purpose of investigating and hearing charges against any professional employee, and for the purpose of dismissing, suspending or otherwise disciplining any such employee, or reviewing any decision of the director affecting the employment status of such employee. In the discharge of its duties as a civil service board, the board shall act pursuant to its rules and regulations governing personnel policies promulgated as hereinabove stated, and shall have the same investigative powers as vested by this Charter in other agencies of the metropolitan government in which investigative power is vested. Any employee of the board dismissed or discharged pursuant to the action of the board after hearing may have such discharge or dismissal reviewed in the same manner as is provided by this Charter for review of actions of the civil service commission under certain conditions.

Sec. 10.207. - Pension and retirement rights under former city or county plans.
All rights and benefits which any person has acquired as an employee of any hospital or institution owned, maintained or operated by the City of Nashville or the County of Davidson are preserved and continued as otherwise provided in this Charter.
