Sec. 8.301. - Created.
There shall be a department of fire, which shall consist of the director thereof, and such other officers and employees of such ranks and grades as may be established by ordinance and which shall include such bureaus, divisions and units as may be provided by ordinance or by regulations of the director consistent therewith.

Sec. 8.302. - Function of department.
The department of fire shall be responsible for the protection against fire of life and property within the urban services district and within other areas covered by contracts authorized by ordinance.

Sec. 8.303. - Fire chief as director; powers and duties.
The department of fire shall be under the management and control of a director thereof, who is designated the fire chief. He or she shall assign members of the department to stations, shifts, details and duties consistent with their rank. He or she shall make regulations, with the approval of the metropolitan mayor and in conformity with applicable ordinances, concerning the operation of the department, the conduct of the officers and employees thereof, their uniforms, arms and other equipment and their training. The fire chief shall be responsible for the efficiency, discipline and good conduct of the department. Orders of the mayor relating to the department shall be transmitted in all cases through the fire chief or in his or her absence or incapacity through an officer designated as acting chief. Disobedience to the lawful commands of the fire chief or violations of the rules and regulations made by him or her with the approval of the mayor shall be grounds for removal or other disciplinary action as provided in such rules and regulations, subject to the civil service provisions of article 12 of this Charter.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 8.304. - Appointment of director; filling other vacancies in department.
A permanent vacancy in the office of director shall be filled by appointment of the mayor, subject to the civil service provisions of this Charter and subject to qualifications to be prescribed by the civil service commission designed to secure a person especially qualified for the position by training and experience. A temporary vacancy in the office of director due to sickness, absence or other disability shall be filled by appointment of the mayor.
A vacancy in any office, position or employment in the department shall be filled by appointment of the fire chief, subject to the approval of the mayor and consistent with the civil service provisions of this Charter.

Sec. 8.305. - Fire prevention.
The department of fire shall recommend to the council for adoption as ordinances such rules and regulations for the prevention of fire as may appear necessary and proper. In the enforcement of such rules and regulations, when adopted, the department shall act through the fire marshal.

Sec. 8.306. - Qualifications of personnel.
After the effective date of this Charter, 5 no person shall be eligible to appointment to any position in the department except as a regular salaried employee in the classified service. Every appointee shall be a citizen of the United States of America; shall meet such physical requirements as shall be prescribed by the civil service commission; and shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the civil service commission.
To determine whether applicants for positions in the department possess the required physical qualifications, the director of health may provide for conducting physical examinations and report his or her findings to the civil service commission.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6; Res. No. RS2022-1475, § 1(Amdt. 3, § IX), 5-5-2022, election of 8-4-2022
5. April 1, 1963.

Sec. 8.307. - Salaries.
The annual compensation of the director, payable semimonthly, shall be twelve thousand ($12,000) dollars. The salaries of the other officers and employees of the department shall be as fixed in the pay plan adopted pursuant to article 12 of this Charter. Editor's note—See Metropolitan Charter § 18.05 for changes in salary and compensation through the general pay plan.

Sec. 8.308. - Work week and vacations.
Every member of the department shall be entitled to two days off each week and to an annual vacation of twenty days without deduction of pay. The time for vacations shall be determined and assigned by the fire chief. All members of the department shall be subject to call and assignment to duty at any time during an emergency.
