Sec. 11.901. - Created; qualifications, term and selection of members.
There shall be a metropolitan traffic and parking commission, sometimes in this chapter called "the commission." The commission shall consist of nine (9) members, who shall serve as such without compensation. One (1) member of the commission shall be the chief of police. One (1) member shall be a member of the council selected by the council for a term of two (2) years.* The remaining seven (7) members of the commission shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by a majority of the whole membership of the council. Said seven (7) members shall serve terms of five (5) years each, provided that the first members appointed shall serve terms of one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4) and five (5) years respectively. Any vacancy due to any cause shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. * Editor's note—Effective November 8, 1994, this sentence will read "One (1) member shall be a member of the council selected by the council for a term of two (2) years." This change was approved by referendum election held November 8, 1994.

Sec. 11.902. - Secretary.
The secretary shall serve at the pleasure of the commission and shall be paid such compensation as shall be fixed by the commission within its budgeted appropriation.

Sec. 11.903. - Chief traffic engineer.
The commission is authorized to select a chief traffic engineer, subject to the civil service provisions of article 12 of this Charter, who shall have such duties as may be prescribed by the commission. The chief traffic engineer shall be a graduate of a school of traffic engineering and shall have had at least five (5) years' experience in traffic administration.

Sec. 11.904. - Function of commission as to traffic regulation.
For the purpose of making the roads, streets and other public ways safe for pedestrians, motorists and others, and for the purpose of facilitating the flow of traffic thereon, the commission is hereby authorized to adopt and publish traffic regulations, including the erection of proper signs necessarily and properly connected with or incident to the following: (a)
The location and time when parking shall be limited.
(b)
Places where parking shall be prohibited entirely or only during certain hours.
(c)
The establishment of stop sign controls for through streets or isolated intersections.
(d)
The establishment of traffic signal controls.
(e)
The direction in which traffic may use any street or portion of a street.
(f)
Restrictions on the size of vehicles using certain streets.
(g)
The establishment of speed zones upon metropolitan streets and roads based upon the findings of the commission. When such zones are properly signposted, the speed indicated on the signs shall be the legal speed limit.
Such traffic regulations adopted by the commission shall take effect five (5) days after they have been published in a daily newspaper of general circulation within the area of the metropolitan government and after a certified copy thereof has been filed with the metropolitan clerk and the chief of police. Such regulations, when so adopted, shall have the force and effect of an ordinance and shall be enforced by the metropolitan police. The metropolitan council shall provide by ordinance for the punishment of violators of such traffic regulations and shall fix proper and adequate fines and penalties.

Sec. 11.905. - Commission's review of proposed ordinances.
Where a proposed ordinance affects traffic control or the use of streets by traffic and is not accompanied at introduction by a favorable recommendation of the traffic and parking commission, a copy thereof shall be promptly delivered by the metropolitan clerk to the commission and the same shall not be passed on second reading until the recommendation of said commission with respect to the proposal has been received, or thirty (30) days have elapsed without such recommendation. No ordinance which affects traffic control or the use of streets by traffic and which has been disapproved by the commission shall be finally passed or become effective unless it shall have been adopted by a two-thirds (⅔) majority of the whole membership of the metropolitan council and also then be approved by the metropolitan mayor with a three-fourths majority of the whole membership of the metropolitan council required to override a veto.

Sec. 11.906. - Publication of traffic rules and regulations.
It shall be the duty of the commission to publish the traffic rules and regulations of the metropolitan government in convenient pamphlet form, and in the compiling of such rules and regulations the commission may call on the metropolitan department of law for such assistance as may be required.

Sec. 11.907. - Management and control of parking meters, garages and other traffic facilities.
The commission shall have power to control and manage parking facilities in any metropolitan street or road, including the installation of parking meters or other necessary equipment in connection therewith. The commission shall prescribe and may revise a schedule of service charges in connection with the use of parking meters, a copy of which schedule shall be kept on file and subject to public inspection at the office of the commission and at the office of the metropolitan clerk.
The commission shall also have control and management of any public parking garage or other traffic facilities, and with the acquisition, construction and establishment of the same. The commission may enter into lease agreements with private operators to operate the parking facilities owned by the metropolitan government. The commission is authorized to collect rents, fees or other charges for such parking garage and other traffic facilities as it may operate and manage.
All moneys collected by the commission from parking meters, or any other service charges, shall be remitted by it to the metropolitan treasurer, who shall keep such moneys in a separate account earmarked for traffic and parking improvements.

Sec. 11.908. - Powers of commission by private act and ordinance continued.
In addition to other powers herein granted, the commission shall have such powers as may have been granted by private act or ordinance to the traffic commission of the City of Nashville or to the parking board of said city, until such powers may be modified or changed by ordinance of the metropolitan council.
