Sec. 8.501. - Created.
There shall be a department of water and sewerage services, which shall consist of the director and such other officers and employees, organized into such divisions and other units as may be provided by ordinance or by the orders of the director consistent therewith.

Sec. 8.502. - Functions.
The department of water and sewerage services shall be responsible for: (1) The construction, operation, and maintenance of all water and sanitary sewer facilities of the metropolitan government; (2) The construction, operation, and maintenance of stormwater facilities of the metropolitan government; (3) The collection of all charges for the services of such utilities; (4) Such other powers and duties as may be assigned to the department by ordinance.
*History: Res. No. RS2012-277, § 1(Amdt. 5), 9-18-2012, election of 11-6-2012

Sec. 8.503. - Director of water and sewerage services—Qualifications and compensation.
The head of the department of water and sewerage services shall be the director, whose annual compensation, payable semimonthly, shall be fifteen thousand ($15,000) dollars. A permanent vacancy in the office of director shall be filled by appointment made by the mayor, subject to the civil service provisions of this Charter. He or she shall be a graduate engineer who is trained and skilled in public utility problems and shall have had at least five (5) years' experience in an executive or major administrative position in a public utility operation or public utility administration.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6
Editor's note—See Metropolitan Charter § 18.05 for changes in salary and compensation through the general pay plan.

Sec. 8.504. - Same—Powers and duties.
The director of water and sewerage services shall have general management and control of the several divisions and units of the department, including the approval of all departmental requisitions for purchases and services. No payment from the funds of the department of water and sewerage services shall be made until such payments shall have been certified as due and correct by the director of the said department; this includes the certification as to the satisfactory performance of all contracts and services in connection with the operation, maintenance, and expansion of the said department. The director shall approve all plans and specifications relating to the expansion, operation, and maintenance of the water and sewerage system. He or she shall appoint and remove, subject to the civil service provisions of article 12 of this Charter, all officers and employees of the department and shall have power to make rules and regulations for the conduct of the business of the department consistent with this Charter and the ordinances of the metropolitan government.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 8.505. - Division of billing and collection.
There shall be established within the department, a division of billing and collection, which shall be responsible for the collection of all charges for the use of water, sewage disposal, and other services incident thereto.

Sec. 8.506. - Accounting system.
The accounting system established by the department shall be in conformity with accepted utility accounting practices and shall be approved by the director of finance and generally correlated with the central finance and accounting system of the metropolitan government.

Sec. 8.507. - Revolving funds.
The revolving fund used in the operation of the waterworks system of the former City of Nashville, as provided in section 15 of article 22 of chapter 246 of the Private Acts of 1947, is hereby continued in full force and effect for the use and benefit of the department of water and sewerage of the metropolitan government. This fund shall be used solely for paying the cost of improvements or extensions of the water system of the metropolitan government and for the purpose of making replacements in said system or purchasing and installing new capital equipment as part of said system. Whenever money in such fund shall be used for said purposes, the money so used shall be replaced in said fund from the first revenues received from the operation of the waterworks system which are not pledged for some other purpose until the fund is again restored to the amount of two hundred thousand ($200,000) dollars; provided, however, that revenues so used for the purpose of replacing money expended from such fund shall not be required to be so used in any one year in an amount exceeding ten (10%) percent of the gross revenues received from the operation of the waterworks system in such year. The council, in its discretion, may provide for the placing of additional revenue in such fund for the purpose of establishing it in a larger amount than the minimum of two hundred thousand ($200,000) dollars herein provided. No proceeds of such fund shall be used for the payment of current costs of operating and maintaining the waterworks system of the metropolitan government or for the purchase of tools, operating supplies or similar equipment. No provision of this section shall be construed to authorize the issuance of additional bonds for the foregoing purposes.

Sec. 8.508. - Establishment of and changes in rates.
The mayor and council are authorized and directed to establish the rates for water and sewerage services and to provide the methods for changes therein.
