Sec. 11.1201. - Public library provided for.
The metropolitan government shall provide for the maintenance and operation of the Nashville Public Library.

Sec. 11.1202. - Public library board—Term and selection of members.
There shall be a public library board, which shall consist of seven (7) members, to be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by a majority of the whole membership of the council. Members of the board shall serve for terms of seven (7) years each; except, that the members first appointed shall be so appointed and designated that the term of one of them shall expire each year in each of the seven ensuing years. Any vacancy occurring during a term shall be filled for the unexpired term. Members of the board shall serve without compensation.

Sec. 11.1203. - Same—Powers and duties.
The public library board shall have direct charge of the Nashville Public Library system and shall have the power and duty to administer and control all libraries under its jurisdiction. The board shall have exclusive authority to make expenditures out of the money appropriated for the public library as well as the money collected from fines or received from other sources. Said board is authorized to accept gifts, bequests and contributions from public sources and private persons and corporations.

Sec. 11.1204. - Chief librarian.
For the proper administration of the public library, the board shall employ a chief librarian and fix his or her compensation. He or she shall be a person with experience in an executive or major administrative position in public library operations. The board may enter into an employment contract with such person for a period not exceeding five (5) years and for a compensation determined therein. The board is authorized to assign to the chief librarian such duties and responsibilities as are customary or usual, including immediate control and management of the public library under the regulations prescribed by the board.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 11.1205. - Public library budget.
The board shall submit to the mayor, through the director of finance, the budget for the public library and it shall be the duty of the council to provide an amount which in its discretion is sufficient for the maintenance and operation of the public library system.
