Sec. 11.1001. - Established; qualifications, term and selection of members.
There shall be a metropolitan board of parks and recreation, sometimes in this chapter called "the board." The board shall consist of seven (7) members, who shall serve without compensation. One of the members of the board shall be a member of the board of education, selected by said board of education for a term of one (1) year; and another member of the board shall be a member of the planning commission, selected by said planning commission for a term of one (1) year. Five (5) members of the board, who shall hold no other public office, shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by a majority of the whole membership of the council. Said five (5) members shall serve terms of five (5) years each, provided that the first members appointed shall serve terms of one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4) and five (5) years, respectively. Any vacancy due to any cause, other than expiration of term, shall be filled for the unexpired term.

Sec. 11.1002. - Powers and duties.
The board shall have the following powers and duties: 1.
The board shall supervise, control and operate the park and recreation system of the metropolitan government.
2.
It shall formulate the policies to be followed in the administration of the park and recreation system; and shall promulgate such rules and regulations as may be appropriate with respect to the administration of its policies.
3.
It shall employ, subject to the civil service provisions of this Charter and within its budget appropriation and other available funds, a director of parks and recreation and such superintendents and other employees as it deems necessary.
4.
It shall review, approve, reject or amend the annual budget request as compiled by the director.
5.
It shall recommend to the council (a) the sale of any lands owned by the metropolitan government for park or recreation purposes and no longer needed for such purposes, (b) the acquisition by condemnation of any additional lands needed for park or recreation purposes, and (c) the acceptance of any gift of lands offered for park or recreation purposes and useful for such purposes. In the acquisition or disposition of land, the board shall cooperate closely with the planning commission, whose recommendations shall be sought and carefully considered by the board.
6.
It shall have the authority to establish the fees and charges within the administration of the park and recreation department. It shall have sole authority of all matters pertaining to the operations of concessions.

Sec. 11.1003. - Director of parks and recreation—Qualifications.
The director of parks and recreation shall have at least five (5) years' experience in park or recreation administration in a supervisory or executive capacity.

Sec. 11.1004. - Same—Powers and duties.
The director shall be the chief administrative officer in charge of the management of public parks, playgrounds and other recreational areas and of a comprehensive recreation program for the area of the metropolitan government. He or she shall administer the policies of the board, recommend rules and regulations to the board for its consideration, and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the board or by ordinance.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 11.1005. - Police protection for parks.
The board may employ custodial personnel who shall be designated as special police by the chief of police, without obligation to give a public officer's liability bond as provided for by section 8.205 of this Charter, and whose jurisdiction as special police shall be limited to the area of parks, playgrounds and other recreational areas. This section shall not be deemed to interfere with the right of the department of police to exercise police jurisdiction within said areas, nor with the duty to provide such police personnel as may be reasonably requested by the director of parks and recreation for the maintenance of law and order therein.
