Sec. 8.201. - Created.
There shall be a department of metropolitan police, which shall consist of the director thereof, and such other officers and employees of such ranks and grades as may be established by ordinance and which shall include such bureaus, divisions and units as may be provided by ordinance or by regulations of the director consistent therewith.

Sec. 8.202. - Responsibility and powers of department.
The department of the metropolitan police shall be responsible within the area of the metropolitan government for the preservation of the public peace, prevention and detection of crime, apprehension of criminals, protection of personal and property rights and enforcement of laws of the State of Tennessee and ordinances of the metropolitan government. 3 The director and other members of the metropolitan police force shall be vested with all the power and authority belonging to the office of constable by the common law and also with all the power, authority and duties which by statute may now or hereafter be provided for police and law enforcement officers of counties and cities. 3. Designation of police department, rather than sheriff as principal conservator of the peace is a valid exercise of power under T.C.A., § 6-3701 et seq. Metropolitan Government v. Poe, 215 Tenn. 53, 383 S.W. 2d 265 (1964).

Sec. 8.203. - Chief of police as director; his or her powers and duties.
The department of metropolitan police shall be under the general management and control of a director thereof, who is designated the chief of police. The chief of police shall establish zones and precincts and assign members of the department to their respective posts, shifts, details and duties consistent with their rank. He or she shall make regulations, with the approval of the mayor and in conformity with applicable ordinances, concerning the operation of the department, the conduct of the officers and employees thereof, their uniforms, arms and other equipment for their training. The chief of police shall be responsible for the efficiency, discipline and good conduct of the department. Orders of the mayor relating to the department shall be transmitted in all cases through the chief of police or in his or her absence or incapacity through an officer designated as acting chief. Disobedience to the lawful commands of the chief of police or violations of the rules and regulations made by him or her with the approval of the metropolitan mayor shall be grounds for removal or other disciplinary action as provided in such rules and regulations, subject to the civil service provisions of article 12 of this Charter.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 8.204. - Appointment of director; filling other vacancies in department.
A permanent vacancy in the office of director shall be filled by appointment of the mayor, subject to the civil service provisions of this Charter and subject to qualifications to be prescribed by the civil service commission designed to secure a person especially qualified for the position by training and experience. A temporary vacancy in the office of director due to sickness, absence or other disability shall be filled by appointment of the mayor.
A vacancy in any office, position or employment in the department shall be filled by appointment of the chief of police, subject to the approval of the mayor and consistent with the civil service provisions of this Charter.

Sec. 8.205. - Special police.
The chief of police may appoint, in his or her discretion and upon the application of any individual, firm or corporation showing the necessity thereof, one or more special police officers, to be paid by the applicant, who shall have the powers and duties of police officers while in or on the premises of such applicant or in the actual performance of the duties for which employed. Special police officers shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the department of metropolitan police and their appointments shall be revocable at any time by the chief of police with the approval of the mayor. Before entering upon the performance of their duties, special police officers shall execute and file with the metropolitan clerk a public officer's liability bond in such amount as may be fixed by resolution of the metropolitan council.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 8.206. - School crossing guard division.
The chief of police may establish, and shall establish if directed by ordinance, a school crossing guard division in the department.
*History: Res. No. RS2012-277, § 1(Amdt. 4), 9-18-2012, election of 11-6-2012

Sec. 8.207. - Volunteer police reserve authorized.
The director may, and if directed by ordinance, shall establish a voluntary auxiliary police reserve to serve without compensation in cases of emergency and in aid of civil defense. Where established by the director, he or she shall promulgate rules, to be approved by the mayor, for the organization and operation thereof.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 8.208. - Qualifications of personnel.
After the effective date of this Charter, 4 no person shall be eligible to appointment to any position in the department except as a regular salaried employee in the classified service. Every appointee shall be a citizen of the United States of America unless otherwise allowed under Tennessee state law; shall meet such physical requirements as shall be prescribed by the civil service commission; and shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the civil service commission.
To determine whether applicants for positions in the department possess the required physical qualifications, the director of health may provide for conducting physical examinations and report his or her findings to the civil service commission.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6; Res. No. RS2022-1475, § 1(Amdt. 2), (Amdt. 3, § VIII), 5-5-2022, election of 8-4-2022
4. April 1, 1963.

Sec. 8.209. - Salaries.
The annual compensation of the director, payable semimonthly, shall be twelve thousand ($12,000) dollars. The salaries of the other officers and employees of the department shall be as fixed in the pay plan adopted pursuant to article 12 of this Charter. Editor's note—See Metropolitan Charter § 18.05 for changes in salary and compensation through the general pay plan.

Sec. 8.210. - Work week and vacations.
Every member of the department shall be entitled to two (2) days off each week and to an annual vacation of twenty (20) days without deduction of pay. The time for vacations shall be determined and assigned by the chief of police. All members of the department shall be subject to call and assignment to duty at any time during an emergency.
