Sec. 11.1101. - Created; qualifications, term and selection of members.
There is hereby created and established a metropolitan social services commission, sometimes in this chapter called "the commission." The commission shall consist of seven (7) members who shall serve without compensation. The members of the commission shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of the whole membership of the council. The seven (7) members shall serve terms of five (5) years each; provided, that two members shall be initially appointed for one year, two for two years, one for three years, one for four years and one for five years, respectively. Thereafter, as their respective terms expire, members shall be chosen for five years. Any vacancy, other than by expiration of term, shall be filled for the unexpired term.

Sec. 11.1102. - Powers and duties.
The commission shall have the following powers or duties: 1.
To administer general assistance to residents of the metropolitan government area and emergency assistance to residents and nonresidents of such area under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the commission in its rules and regulations.
2.
To make social investigations and reports to the council, the selective service and other governmental agencies.
3.
To engage in study and research regarding the cause of financial dependency, and methods of better treating such dependency.
4.
To administer public and private grants for welfare and relief purposes, and perform related welfare functions.
5.
To perform such functions as may be assigned by law to county welfare agencies.
6.
To supervise and/or operate welfare facilities.
7.
To enter into cooperative agreements with the public welfare agencies of other local governments, the State of Tennessee and the United States Government and with voluntary welfare agencies for the administration of welfare programs.
8.
To supervise the operation of the McKay Home, the Municipal Children's Home and the Knowles Homes for the Aged of the former City of Nashville. The Knowles Homes shall be operated in conjunction with the mayor in his or her capacity as trustee of the Knowles Estate. The supervision of the operation of any or all of the institutions enumerated in this subsection may be transferred by ordinance to the metropolitan board of hospitals.
9.
To use in its work any funds appropriated by the council and in its performance thereof to receive donations from firms, individuals and private or governmental agencies.
10.
To perform such other functions as may be assigned by ordinance or statute.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 11.1103. - Director of social services.
There shall be a director of social services, who shall be appointed by the commission. The commission may enter into an employment contract with such person for a period not exceeding five (5) years at a compensation to be fixed by the commission.
The director shall administer the policies of the commission, recommend rules and regulations to the commission for its consideration, and perform such other duties as may be assigned to the director by the commission or by ordinance.
