Sec. 8.601. - Created.
There shall be a department of law, which shall consist of the director thereof, of other personnel hereinafter mentioned and of such other positions and employees as may be provided by ordinance or by regulations of the director consistent with ordinance.

Sec. 8.602. - Functions.
The department of law shall have the power and its duty shall be to perform the following functions (a)
Supervise, direct and control all of the law work of the metropolitan government, except with respect to the electric power board, which, having its own general counsel, is excepted from the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
Furnish legal advice to the mayor, to the council and to all officers, departments, boards and commissions concerning any matters arising in connection with the exercise of their official powers or performance of their official duties.
(c)
Represent the metropolitan government in all litigation.
(d)
Collect by suit or otherwise all debts, taxes and accounts due the metropolitan government which shall be placed with it for collection by any officer, department, board or commission.
(e)
Prepare or approve all contracts, bonds, deeds, leases or other instruments in writing in which the metropolitan government is concerned.
(f)
Prepare or assist in preparing' for introduction any proposed ordinance upon request of the mayor or any member of the council.
(g)
Codify and cause to be published in convenient book form once in every five (5) years all of the general ordinances which are still in effect, with compilation and publication annually of a supplement thereto. The first general codification shall be published within one (1) year after the first director of law assumes office under this Charter, unless the council by resolution shall extend the time therefor.
(h)
Perform such other duties as may be assigned to it by ordinance.

Sec. 8.603. - Appointment, qualifications, compensation and powers and duties of director of law; designated metropolitan attorney.
The department of law shall be under the supervision and control of the director of law, who is designated the metropolitan attorney. The metropolitan attorney shall be appointed by the mayor for a term which terminates with the term of the mayor making the appointment. He or she shall be confirmed by a majority vote of the total membership of the council. He or she shall have been a member of the bar of Tennessee for at least five (5) years preceding his or her appointment and also have been a resident of the area of the metropolitan government for a like period. His or her annual compensation, payable semimonthly, shall be fifteen thousand ($15,000) dollars. The metropolitan attorney shall appoint all officers and employees of the department and may remove them, subject to the civil service provisions of article 12 of this Charter. The director of law shall determine and assign to the members of his or her staff and other employees of the department their respective duties and responsibilities, except as provided in the transitional provisions of this Charter.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6
Editor's note—See Metropolitan Charter § 18.05 for changes in salary and compensation through the general pay plan.

Sec. 8.604. - Deputy director of law.
There shall be a deputy director of law, designated as the deputy metropolitan attorney, who shall be appointed by the director of law, subject to the approval of the mayor. The qualifications of the deputy director of law shall be those hereinabove specified for the director of law and his or her compensation shall be twelve thousand ($12,000) dollars per annum, payable semimonthly. The deputy director of law shall be under the supervision and direction of the metropolitan attorney and shall assist him or her in the organization, administration and control of the department of law. In the absence of the director of law or in the event of a vacancy in his or her office, the deputy director of law shall perform the duties thereof until the director returns or the vacancy is filled.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6
Editor's note—See Metropolitan Charter § 18.05 for changes in salary and compensation through the general pay plan.

Sec. 8.605. - Assistant metropolitan attorneys.
There shall be four (4) assistant metropolitan attorneys who shall be appointed by the director of law, subject to the approval of the mayor, and each of whose compensation shall be seventy-five hundred ($7500) dollars per annum, payable semimonthly. The council may by ordinance create additional positions of assistant metropolitan attorney and fix the compensation of such positions, not to be higher than the minimum salary then being paid to an assistant metropolitan attorney. All assistant metropolitan attorneys shall perform such work of the department as may be assigned to them by the director. Editor's note—See Metropolitan Charter § 18.05 for changes in salary and compensation through the general pay plan.

Sec. 8.606. - Director of law and others not to engage in private practice.
The metropolitan attorney, the deputy metropolitan attorney and all assistant metropolitan attorneys shall devote their entire time and attention to the business of the department of law, and shall not engage in the private practice of law.

Sec. 8.607. - Employment of special counsel restricted and provided for.
No department, board, commission or other agency of the metropolitan government may employ special counsel. Whenever the interests of the metropolitan government require special counsel, the council, by resolution, may authorize the mayor to employ such counsel, who shall be paid such compensation for his or her service as the mayor, the director of law and the director of finance shall determine to be reasonable compensation for the services rendered, and as the council shall by resolution approve. The employment of bond counsel shall not be considered as the employment of special counsel for purposes of this section.
When the interests of the metropolitan council require legal counsel, the council, by resolution, may authorize the vice-mayor to employ such legal counsel, who shall be paid such compensation for his or her services as the council shall determine to be reasonable compensation for the services rendered, and as the council shall by resolution approve. Such resolution shall not require the approval of the mayor, the director of finance or the director of law.
*History: Res. No. 72-380, § 1, 11-7-72; amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 8.608. - Certain personnel of department not under civil service.
The metropolitan attorney, the deputy metropolitan attorney, their respective private secretaries and assistant metropolitan attorneys shall not hold civil service status, except as expressly provided in the transitional provisions of this Charter.

Sec. 8.609. - Amending Charter references to state statutes.
Upon the renumbering of any sections of the Tennessee Code Annotated to which this Charter makes reference, said references in the Charter shall be renumbered to properly identify the renumbered sections of the Tennessee Code Annotated after compliance with the following procedure. The metropolitan attorney, after review and approval by the Charter revision commission, shall submit the proposed changes to the metropolitan council for approval by resolution. Upon approval by the metropolitan council, a certified copy of the approving resolution shall be delivered to the secretary of state and to the metropolitan clerk who shall attach the same to the copy of the Charter in his or her custody.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6
Editor's note—The addition of § 8.609 was approved at an election held Aug. 4, 1983.
