Sec. 11.501. - Established.
There shall be a metropolitan planning commission, sometimes in this chapter called "the commission," which shall be the official planning agency for the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County.

Sec. 11.502. - Number, qualifications, appointment, terms of office and vacancies of members.
The commission shall consist of ten (10) members. The mayor shall serve as a member of the commission by virtue of his or her public office and one (1) member of the metropolitan county council shall be selected by that body from its membership to serve as a member of the commission for a term of two (2) years.* The member of the council selected to serve as a member of this commission shall be the chairman of the council committee on planning, provided such a committee is established. Eight (8) members shall be appointed by the mayor and shall be confirmed by a majority vote of the whole membership of the council.
The eight (8) members appointed by the mayor shall serve a term of four (4) years, respectively, or until a successor is duly appointed and qualified; except, of the members first appointed, two (2) shall serve for a term of one (1) year, two (2) for a term of two (2) years, two (2) for a term of three (3) years, and two (2) for a term of four (4) years.**
Any vacancy occurring during the unexpired term of any member shall be filled in the manner prescribed herein for the original selection of the members of this commission.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6
* Editor's note—Prior to September 1, 1996, this sentence read, "The mayor shall serve as a member of the commission by virtue of his or her public office and one (1) member of the metropolitan county council shall be selected by that body from its membership to serve as a member of this commission." This addition of language specifying the length of term was approved by referendum election held November 8, 1994.
** Editor's note—Prior to September 1, 1996, this sentence was followed by another sentence that read, "The terms of the mayor and the members of the council shall be coextensive with the terms of their respective public positions." Its deletion was approved by a referendum election held November 8, 1994.

Sec. 11.503. - Organization; officers; meetings; quorum; business; records.
Immediately upon appointment and qualification, the metropolitan planning commission shall elect one of its appointive members as chairman and one as vice-chairman, each of whom shall serve for a period of one (1) year, respectively, or until his or her successor shall have been chosen for the ensuing term. The commission may choose such other officers as it deems necessary.
The metropolitan planning commission shall meet regularly at a public building at least once a month and its meetings shall be open to the public. Special meetings may be called by the chairman of the commission or by any three (3) members thereof. Six (6) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, which shall be accomplished in accordance with bylaws adopted by the commission. A majority vote of the members present and constituting a quorum shall be necessary to decide any item of business requiring action by the commission. The commission shall maintain a record of its meetings and all actions taken and these records shall be open to the public.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 11.504. - Powers, duties and responsibilities.
The metropolitan planning commission shall have all of the powers, duties and responsibilities which are now or may be hereafter granted to municipal planning commissions, regional planning commissions or metropolitan planning commissions by general state law, including specifically but not limited to such powers, duties and responsibilities with respect to general planning, zoning and subdivision regulations as are granted by the following chapters of title 13 (Public Planning and Housing) of the Tennessee Code Annotated: chapter 3, part 1 (Regional Planning Commissions); chapter 3, part 4 (Regional Planning Regulations); chapter 7, part 1 (County Zoning Regulations); chapter 4, part 1 (Municipal Planning Commissions); chapter 4, part 3 (Municipal Planning Regulations); and chapter 7, part 2 (Municipal Zoning Regulations); provided such powers, duties and responsibilities are not in conflict with the provisions of this article. To the extent that there is any conflict between the powers given a metropolitan planning commission and the powers given a municipal planning commission or a regional planning commission, the commission hereby created shall be deemed a metropolitan planning commission; and to the extent that there is any conflict between the powers given a municipal planning commission and the powers given a regional planning commission, the commission hereby created shall be deemed a municipal planning commission. In addition thereto, the commission shall have such powers, duties and responsibilities as are provided by ordinance.
In the performance of these powers, duties and responsibilities, the metropolitan planning commission shall have the authority, and where appropriate to the context shall be required, to: (a)
Within its budget appropriation and other funds at its disposal employ personnel and enter into contracts for such services as it may require.
(b)
Enter into agreements and receive such grants and/or assistance as may be available from the federal or state governments for planning purposes; receive gifts for planning purposes.
(c)
Require information which shall be furnished within a reasonable time from the other departments and agencies of the metropolitan government.
(d)
Enter upon any land and make examinations and surveys and place and maintain necessary monuments and markers thereon.
(e)
Make, amend and add to the master or general plan for the physical development of the entire metropolitan government area.
(f)
Exercise control over platting or subdividing of land within the metropolitan government area.
(g)
Draft for the council an official map of the area and recommend or disapprove proposed changes in such map.
(h)
Make and adopt a zoning plan and recommend or disapprove proposed changes in such plan.
(i)
Make, in cooperation with the metropolitan government housing authority, and adopt plans for the clearance and rebuilding of slum areas and for the improvement of blighted areas within the metropolitan government area.
(j)
Make and adopt plans for the replanning, conservation, improvements and renewal of neighborhoods, planning units and communities within the metropolitan government area.
(k)
Submit annually to the mayor, not less than sixty (60) days prior to the beginning of the budget year, a list of recommended capital improvements which in the opinion of the commission are necessary or desirable to be constructed or otherwise provided during the forthcoming six-year period. Such lists shall be arranged in order of preference with recommendations as to which projects shall be constructed in which years.
(l)
Promote public interest in and understanding of planning and its organization and operation, the master or general plan and its constituent parts, and the implementation of planning, including zoning, subdivision regulation, urban renewal, the official map and capital improvements programming.
*History: Res. No. 88-526, § 17, 10-4-88

Sec. 11.505. - Mandatory referrals to planning commission.
Whenever the commission shall have adopted the master or general plan of the metropolitan government area or any part thereof, then and thenceforth no street, park or other public way, ground, place or space, no public building or structure, or no public utility whether publicly or privately owned, shall be constructed or authorized in the area under the jurisdiction of the metropolitan government until and unless the location and extent thereof shall have been submitted to and approved by the planning commission; provided, that in case of disapproval, the commission shall communicate its reasons to the council and said council by a vote of a majority of its membership, shall have the power to overrule such disapproval and, upon such overruling, said council shall have the power to proceed. The widening, narrowing, relocation, vacation, change in the use, acceptance, acquisition, sale or lease of any street or public way, ground, place, property or structure shall be subject to similar submission and approval, and the failure to approve may be similarly overruled. The failure of the commission to act within thirty (30) days from and after the date of official submission to it shall be deemed approval, unless a longer period be granted by the submitting body, board or official.

Sec. 11.506. - Department of planning; executive director.
There shall be a department of planning, headed by an executive director. The planning commission shall appoint an executive director and may enter into an employment contract with such person for a period not exceeding five (5) years, and at a compensation to be fixed by the commission.
The executive director shall attend all meetings of the metropolitan planning commission, act as its secretary, keep minutes of its proceedings, direct the staff of the commission in its work, and shall have such other authority, duties and responsibilities as the commission may require and establish or as may be provided by ordinance.
The executive director shall have such executive authority, duties and responsibilities as are now or may be hereafter provided by general state law concerning municipal planning commissions, regional planning commissions or metropolitan planning commissions.
The department of planning shall be organized in such manner deemed appropriate by the planning commission for the performance of its work.
