Sec. 11.101. - General provisions control except as specified.
The following general provisions shall apply to all administrative boards and commissions established by this article or other provisions of this Charter, except as specific provisions as to a particular board or commission otherwise provide.

Sec. 11.101.1. - Holding over of member after expiration of term; appointment of successor, reappointment.
Any member of an administrative board or commission established under the provisions of this charter or by ordinance of the metropolitan county council and whose term has expired, may remain as a member of said board or commission no longer than sixty (60) days after the expiration of his or her term. Should the mayor or other appointing authority fail to appoint a successor or reappoint the member within sixty (60) days after expiration of his or her term, the position shall be deemed vacated and the power and authority to appoint shall be vested in the vice-mayor subject to confirmation by the council in the same manner as prescribed by this charter.
Should the mayor or other appointing authority appoint a successor or reappoint the member prior to or within sixty (60) days of the expiration of the term, and the metropolitan council fail[s] to act on the appointment within sixty (60) days of receipt of the letter of appointment from the mayor or other appointing authority, the appointment shall be conclusively presumed approved by the council.
Should an appointee be rejected by the council, the mayor or other appointing authority shall have sixty days to submit a new appointee to said council, provided the mayor or other appointing authority shall not resubmit the rejected appointee's name for consideration for the same position for a period of one (1) year.
*History: Res. No. 74-869 § 1, 11-5-74; amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 11.102. - Qualifications of members.
Every member shall have been a resident of the area of the metropolitan government for not less than one (1) year prior to his or her appointment and shall continue to be so eligible so long as he or she shall serve.
*History: Amended by Res. No. RS2006-1487 (Amdt. 5), referendum election of November 7, 2006, Amdt. 6; amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 11.103. - Quorum.
A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of meeting and transacting business.

Sec. 11.104. - Regular and special meetings.
Each board or commission shall hold regular meetings at least quarterly for the conduct of its business and may hold more frequent regular meetings as its by-laws may provide; and it may hold special meetings as may be deemed necessary, the same to be called or held as provided in its by-laws.

Sec. 11.105. - Election of chairman, vice-chairman and secretary.
Each board or commission shall elect one of its members as chairman and another as vice-chairman, who shall serve for a period of one (1) year or until his or her successor shall have been chosen; and it may elect as its secretary one of its own members or it may appoint as secretary one of its employees.
*History: Amended by referendum election of November 6, 2018, Amdt. 6

Sec. 11.106. - Members to hold no other metropolitan office or position.
No appointive member of any board or commission shall hold any other remunerative public office or position in the metropolitan government, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Charter.

Sec. 11.107. - By-laws, rules and regulations to be filed with metropolitan clerk.
Each board or commission may make such by-laws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with law, as it deems appropriate for the conduct of its business, copies of which shall be filed with the metropolitan clerk and with the secretary of the board or commission.

Sec. 11.108. - Employment of personnel.
Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, each board or commission is authorized to employ such personnel as may be necessary to perform its functions and as may be within the limits of its budget appropriations.

Sec. 11.109. - Removal of members.
Any appointive member of any board or commission established under the provisions of this Charter or by ordinance may be removed from office by a three-fourths (¾'s) vote of the entire membership of the council.
(Added by Amdt. 1 to referendum petition approved June 11, 1991)
