CHAPTER    XVII 
THE     ELEPHANT-BEETLE 
Some  of  our  machines  have  extraordinary-looking 
mechanisms,  which  remain  inexplicable  so  long  as 
they  are  seen  in  repose.  But  wait  until  the  whole  is 
in  motion ;  then  the  uncouth-looking  contrivance, 
with  its  cog-wheels  interacting  and  its  connecting-rods 
oscillating,  will  reveal  the  ingenious  combination  in 
which  all  things  are  skilfully  disposed  to  produce  the 
desired  effects.  It  is  the  same  with  certain  insects  ; 
with  certain  weevils,  for  instance,  and  notably  with  the 
Acorn-beetles  or  Balanini,  which  are  adapted,  as  their 
name  denotes,  to  the  exploitation  of  acorns,  nuts,  and 
other  similar  fruits. 
The  most  remarkable,  in  my  part  of  France,  is  the 
Acorn  Elephant  {Balaniniis  eUphas,  Sch.).  It  is  well 
named  ;  the  very  name  evokes  a  mental  picture  of  the 
insect.  It  is  a  living  caricature,  this  beetle  with  the 
prodigious  snout.  The  latter  is  no  thicker  than  a  horse- 
hair, reddish  in  colour,  almost  rectilinear,  and  of  such 
length  that  in  order  not  to  stumble  the  insect  is  forced 
to  carry  it  stiffly  outstretched  like  a  lance  in  rest. 
What  is  the  use  of  this  embarrassing  pike,  this  ridicu- 
lous snout  ? 
THE   ELEPHANT-BEETLE  239 
Here  I  can  see  some  reader  shrug  his  shoulders. 
Well,  if  the  only  end  of  life  is  to  make  money  by 
hook  or  by  crook,  such  questions  are  certainly 
ridiculous. 
Happily  there  are  some  to  whom  nothing  in  the 
majestic  riddle  of  the  universe  is  little.  They  know 
of  what  humble  materials  the  bread  of  thought  is 
kneaded  ;  a  nutriment  no  less  necessary  than  the  bread 
made  from  wheat  ;  and  they  know  that  both  labourers 
and  inquirers  nourish  the  world  with  an  accumulation 
of  crumbs. 
Let  us  take  pity  on  the  question,  and  proceed. 
Without  seeing  it  at  work,  we  already  suspect  that  the 
fantastic  beak  of  the  Balaninus  is  a  drill  analogous  to 
those  which  we  ourselves  use  in  order  to  perforate  hard 
materials.  Two  diamond-points,  the  mandibles,  form  the 
terminal  armature  of  the  drill.  Like  the  Larinidae,  but 
under  conditions  of  greater  difficulty,  the  Curculionidae 
must  use  the  implement  in  order  to  prepare  the  way  for 
the  installation  of  their   eggs. 
But  however  well  founded  our  suspicion  may  be,  it 
is  not  a  certitude,  I  can  only  discover  the  secret  by 
watching  the  insect  at  work. 
Chance,  the  servant  of  those  that  patiently  solicit  it, 
grants  me  a  sight  of  the  acorn-beetle  at  work,  in  the 
earlier  half  of  October.  My  surprise  is  great,  for  at 
this  late  season  all  industrial  activity  is  as  a  rule '  at 
an  end.  The  first  touch  of  cold  and  the  entomological 
season  is  over. 
To-day,  moreover,  it  is  wild  weather ;  the  bise  is 
moaning,  glacial,  cracking  one's  lips.  One  needs  a 
robust  faith  to  go  out  on  such  a  day  in  order  to  inspect 
240     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
the  thickets.  Yet  if  the  beetle  with  the  long  beak 
exploits  the  acorns,  as  I  think  it  does,  the  time  presses  if 
I  am  to  catch  it  at  its  work.  The  acorns,  still  green 
have  acquired  their  full  growth.  In  two  or  three  weeks 
they  will  attain  the  chestnut  brown  of  perfect  maturity, 
quickly  followed  by  their  fall. 
My  seemingly  futile  pilgrimage  ends  in  success.  On 
the  evergreen  oaks  I  surprise  a  Balaninus  with  the  trunk 
half  sunk  in  an  acorn.  Careful  observation  is  impossible 
while  the  branches  are  shaken  by  the  mistral.  I  detach 
the  twig  and  lay  it  gently  upon  the  ground.  The  insect 
takes  no  notice  of  its  removal ;  it  continues  its  work.  I 
crouch  beside  it,  sheltered  from  the  storm  behind  a 
mass  of  underwood,  and  watch  operations. 
Shod  with  adhesive  sandals  which  later  on,  in  my 
laboratory,  will  allow  it  rapidly  to  climb  a  vertical  sheet 
of  glass,  the  elephant-beetle  is  solidly  established  on 
the  smooth,  steep  curvature  of  the  acorn.  It  is  working 
its  drill.  Slowly  and  awkwardly  it  moves  around  its 
implanted  weapon,  describing  a  semicircle  whose  centre 
is  the  point  of  the  drill,  and  then  another  semicircle  in 
the  reverse  direction.  This  is  repeated  over  and  over 
again ;  the  movement,  in  short,  is  identical  with  that 
we  give  to  a  bradawl  when  boring  a  hole  in  a  plank. 
Little  by  little  the  rostrum  sinks  into  the  acorn.  At 
the  end  of  an  hour  it  has  entirely  disappeared.  A  short 
period  of  repose  follows,  and  finally  the  instrument  is 
withdrawn.  What  is  going  to  happen  next  ?  Nothing 
on  this  occasion.  The  Balaninus  abandons  its  work 
and  solemnly  retires,  disappearing  among  the  withered 
leaves.  For  the  day  there  is  nothing  more  to  be 
learned. 
THE  ELEPHANT-BEETLE  241 
But  my  interest  is  now  awakened.  On  calm  days, 
more  favourable  to  the  entomologist,  I  return  to  the 
woods,  and  I  soon  have  sufficient  insects  to  people  my 
laboratory  cages.  Foreseeing  a  serious  difficulty  in  the 
slowness  with  which  the  beetle  labours,  I  prefer  to 
study  them  indoors,  with  the  unlimited  leisure  only 
to  be  found  in  one's  own  home. 
The  precaution  is  fortunate.  If  I  had  tried  to 
continue  as  I  began,  and  to  observe  the  Balaninus 
in  the  liberty  of  the  woods,  I  should  never,  even  with  the 
greatest  good  fortune,  have  had  the  patience  to  follow  to 
the  end  the  choice  of  the  acorn,  the  boring  of  the  hole, 
and  the  laying  of  the  eggs,  so  meticulously  deliberate 
is  the  insect  in  all  its  affairs  ;  as  the  reader  will  soon  be 
able  to  judge. 
Three  species  of  oak-tree  compose  the  copse  inhabited 
by  the  Balaninus  :  the  evergreen  oak  and  the  pubescent 
oak,  which  would  become  fine  trees  if  the  woodman 
would  give  them  time,  and  the  kermes  oak,  a  mere 
scrubby  bush.  The  first  species,  which  is  the  most 
abundant  of  the  three,  is  that  preferred  by  the  Balaninus. 
The  acorn  is  firm,  elongated,  and  of  moderate  size ; 
the  cup  is  covered  with  little  warts.  The  acorns  of 
the  pubescent  oak  are  usually  stunted,  short,  wrinkled, 
and  fluted,  and  subject  to  premature  fall.  The  aridity  of 
the  hills  of  Serignan  is  unfavourable  to  them.  The 
Acorn-beetles  accept  them  only  in  default  of  something 
better. 
The  kermes,  a  dwarf  oak,  a  ridiculous  tree  which  a 
man  can  jump  over,  surprises  me  by  the  wealth  of  its 
acorns,  which  are  large,  ovoidal  growths,  the  cup  being 
covered  with  scales.     The  Balaninus  could  not  make  a 
17 
242     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
better  choice  ;  the  acorn  afifords  a  safe,  strong  dwelling 
and  a  capacious  storehouse  of  food. 
A  few  twigs  from  these  three  trees,  well  provided  with 
acorns,  are  arranged  under  the  domes  of  some  of  my 
wire-gauze  covers,  the  ends  being  plunged  into  a  glass 
of  water  which  will  keep  them  fresh.  A  suitable  number 
of  couples  are  then  introduced  into  the  cages  ;  and  the 
latter  are  placed  at  the  windows  of  my  study,  where  they 
obtain  the  direct  sunlight  for  the  greater  part  of  the 
day.  Let  us  now  arm  ourselves  with  patience,  and  keep 
a  constant  watch  upon  events.  We  shall  be  rewarded  ; 
the  exploitation  of  the  acorn  deserves  to  be  seen. 
Matters  do  not  drag  on  for  very  long.  Two  days 
after  these  preparations  I  arrive  at  the  precise  moment 
when  the  task  is  commenced.  The  mother,  larger  than 
the  male,  and  equipped  with  a  longer  drill,  is  inspecting 
her  acorn,  doubtless  with  a  view  to  depositing  her  eggs. 
She  goes  over  it  step  by  step,  from  the  point  to  the 
stem,  both  above  and  below.  On  the  warty  cup  pro- 
gression is  easy;  over  the  rest  of  the  surface  it  would  be 
impossible,  were  not  the  soles  of  her  feet  shod  with 
adhesive  pad$,  which  enable  her  to  retain  her  hold  in 
any  position.  Without  the  least  uncertainty  of  footing, 
the  insect  walks  with  equal  facility  over  the  top  or 
bottom  or  up  the  sides  of  the  slippery  fruit. 
The  choice  is  made  ;  the  acorn  is  recognised  as  being 
of  good  quality.  The  time  has  come  to  sink  the  hole. 
On  account  of  its  excessive  length  it  is  not  easy  to 
manoeuvre  the  beak.  To  obtain  the  best  mechanical 
effect  the  instrument  must  be  applied  perpendicularly  to 
the  convex  surface  of  the  acorn,  and  the  embarrassing 
implement  which  is  carried  in  front  of  the  insect  when 
THE  ELEPHANT-BEETLE  243 
the  latter  is  not  at  work  must  now  be  held  in  such  a 
position  as  to  be  beneath  the  worker. 
To  obtain  this  result  the  insect  rears  herself  upon 
her  hind  legs,  supporting  herself  upon  the  tripod  formed 
by  the  end  of  the  wing-covers  and  the  posterior  tarsi.  It 
would  be  hard  to  imagine  anything  more  curious  than 
this  little  carpenter,  as  she  stands  upright  and  brings  her 
nasal  bradawl  down  towards  her  body. 
Now  the  drill  is  held  plumb  against  the  surface, 
and  the  boring  commences.  The  method  is  that  1 
witnessed  in  the  wood  on  the  day  of  the  storm.  Very 
slowly  the  insect  veers  round  from  right  to  left,  then 
from  left  to  right.  Her  drill  is  not  a  spiral  gimlet  which 
will  sink  itself  by  a  constant  rotaiy  motion  ;  it  is  a 
bradawl,  or  rather  a  trochar,  which  progresses  by  little 
bites,  by  alternative  erosion,  first  in  one  direction,  then 
the  other. 
Before  continuing,  let  me  record  an  accident  which  is 
too  striking  to  be  passed  over.  On  various  occasions  I 
have  found  the  insect  dead  in  the  midst  of  its  task.  The 
body  is  in  an  extraordinary  position,  which  would  be 
laughable  if  death  were  not  always  a  serious  thing, 
above  all  when  it  comes  suddenly,  in  the  midst  of 
labour. 
The  drill  is  implanted  in  the  acorn  just  a  little  beyond 
the  tip  ;  the  work  was  only  commenced.  At  the  top  of 
the  drill,  at  right  angles  to  it,  the  Balaninus  is  suspended 
in  the  air,  far  from  the  supporting  surface  of  the  acorn. 
It  is  dried,  mummified,  dead  I  know  not  how  long. 
The  legs  are  rigid  and  contracted  under  the  body.  Even 
if  they  retained  the  flexibility  and  the  power  of  extension 
that  were  theirs  in  life,  they  would  fall  far  short  of  the 
244     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
surface  of  the  acorn.  What  then  has  happened,  that  this 
unhappy  insect  should  be  impaled  like  a  specimen 
beetle  with  a  pin  through  its  head  ? 
An  accident  of  the  workshop  is  responsible.  On 
account  of  the  length  of  its  implement  the  beetle 
commences  her  work  standing  upright,  supported  by  the 
two  hind-legs.  Imagine  a  slip,  a  false  step  on  the  part  of 
the  two  adhesive  feet ;  the  unfortunate  creature  will 
immediately  lose  her  footing,  dragged  by  the  elasticity  of 
the  snout,  which  she  was  forced  to  bend  somewhat 
at  the  beginning.  Torn  away  from  her  foothold,  the 
suspended  insect  vainly  struggles  in  air  ;  nowhere  can 
her  feet,  those  safety  anchors,  find  a  hold.  She  starves 
at  the  end  of  her  snout,  for  lack  of  foothold  whereby 
to  extricate  herself.  Like  the  artisans  in  our  factories, 
the  elephant-beetle  is  sometimes  the  victim  of  her 
tools.  Let  us  wish  her  good  luck,  and  sure  feet,  careful 
not  to  slip,  and  proceed. 
On  this  occasion  all  goes  well,  but  so  slowly  that 
the  descent  of  the  drill,  even  when  amplified  by  the 
magnifying-glass,  cannot  be  perceived.  The  insect  veers 
round  perpetually,  rests,  and  resumes  her  work.  An 
hour  passes,  two  hours,  wearying  the  observer  by  their 
sustained  attention  ;  for  I  wish  to  witness  the  precise 
moment  when  the  beetle  withdraws  her  drill,  turns 
round,  and  deposits  her  egg  in  the  mouth  of  the  orifice. 
This,  at  least,  is  how  I  foresee  the  event. 
Two  hours  go  by,  exhausting  my  patience.  I  call  the 
household  to  my  aid.  Three  of  us  take  turns,  keeping 
an  uninterrupted  watch  upon  the  persevering  creature 
whose  secret  I  intend  at  any  cost  to  discover. 
It  was  well  that  I  called  in  helpers  to  lend  me  their 
1.  THE  GREY  LOCUST.         j'.  THE  NERVATURES  OF  THE  WING. 
2.  THE  BALANINUS  FALLEN  A  VICTIM  TO  THE  LENGTH  OF  HER 
PROBOSCIS. 
To  face  p.  244. 
THE  ELEPHANT-BEETLE  245 
eyes  and  their  attention.  After  eight  hours — eight  inter- 
minable hours,  when  it  was  nearly  night,  the  sentinel 
on  the  watch  calls  me.  The  insect  appears  to  have 
finished.  She  does,  in  fact,  very  cautiously  withdraw 
her  beak,  as  though  fearing  to  slip.  Once  the  tool  is 
withdrawn  she  holds  it  pointing  directly  in  front  of  her. 
The  moment  has  come.  .  .  .  Alas,  no  1  Once  more  I 
am  cheated  ;  my  eight  hours  of  observation  have  been 
fruitless.  The  Balaninus  decamps  ;  abandons  her  acorn 
without  laying  her  eggs.  I  was  certainly  right  to  dis- 
trust the  result  of  observation  in  the  open  woods.  Such 
concentration  among  the  oaks,  exposed  to  the  sun,  wind, 
and  rain  would  have  been  an  intolerable  task. 
During  the  whole  of  October,  with  the  aid  of  such 
helpers  as  are  needed,  I  remark  a  number  of  borings, 
not  followed  by  the  laying  of  eggs.  The  duration  of  the 
observer's  task  varies  greatly.  It  usually  amounts  to  a 
couple  of  hours  ;  sometimes  it  exceeds  half  the  day. 
With  what  object  are  these  perforations  made,  so 
laborious  and  yet  so  often  unused  ?  Let  us  first  of  all 
discover  the  position  of  the  egg,  and  the  first  mouthfuls 
taken  by  the  grub,  and  perhaps  the  reply  will  be  found. 
The  peopled  acorns  remain  on  the  oak,  held  in  their  cups 
as  though  nothing  had  occurred  to  the  detriment  of  the 
cotyledons.  With  a  little  attention  they  may  be  readily 
recognised.  Not  far  from  the  cup,  on  the  smooth,  still 
green  envelope  of  the  acorn  a  little  point  is  visible  ;  a 
tiny  needle-prick.  A  narrow  brown  aureole,  the  product 
of  mortification,  is  not  long  in  appearing.  This  marks 
the  opening  of  the  hole.  Sometimes,  but  more  rarely, 
the  hole  is  drilled  through  the  cup  itself. 
Let  us  select  those  acorns  which  have  been   icctnti 
246     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
perforated :  that  is  to  say,  those  in  which  the  perforation 
is  not  yet  surrounded  by  the  brown  ring  which  appears 
in  course  of  time.  Let  us  shell  them.  Many  contain 
nothing  out  of  the  way  ;  the  Balaninus  has  bored  them 
but  has  not  laid  her  eggs  in  them.  They  resemble  the 
acorns  which  for  hours  and  hours  were  drilled  in  my 
laboratory  but  not  utilised.  Many,  on  the  contrary, 
contain  an  egg. 
Now  however  distant  the  entrance  of  the  bore  may  be, 
this  egg  is  always  at  the  bottom  of  the  acorn,  within  the 
cup,  at  the  base  of  the  cotyledonary  matter.  The  cup 
furnishes  a  thin  film  like  swan-skin  which  imbibes  the 
sapid  exudations  from  the  stem,  the  source  of  nourish- 
ment. I  have  seen  a  young  grub,  hatched  under  my 
eyes,  eat  as  his  first  mouthfuls  this  tender  cottony 
layer,  which  is  moist  and  flavoured  with  tannin. 
Such  nutriment,  juicy  and  easy  of  digestion,  like  all 
nascent  organic  matter,  is  only  found  in  this  particular 
spot ;  and  it  is  only  there,  between  the  cup  and  the  base 
of  the  cotyledons,  that  the  elephant-beetle  establishes  her 
egg.  The  insect  knows  to  a  nicety  the  position  of  the 
portions  best  adapted  to  the  feeble  stomach  of  the  newly 
hatched  larva. 
Above  this  is  the  tougher  nutriment  of  the  cotyledons. 
Refreshed  by  its  first  meal,  the  grub  proceeds  to  attack 
this ;  not  directly,  but  in  the  tunnel  bored  by  the 
mother,  which  is  littered  with  tiny  crumbs  and  half- 
masticated  shavings.  With  this  light  mealy  diet  the 
strength  of  the  grub  increases,  and  it  then  plunges 
directly  into  the  substance  of  the  acorn. 
These  data  explain  the  tactics  of  the  gravid  mother. 
What  is  her  object  when,  before  proceeding  to  sink  her 
THE   ELEPHANT-BEETLE  247 
hole,  she  inspects  her  acorn,  from  above,  below,  before 
and  behind,  with  such  meticulous  care  ?  She  is  making 
sure  that  the  acorn  is  not  already  occupied.  The  larder 
is  amply  stored,  but  it  does  not  contain  enough  for  two. 
Never,  in  fact,  have  I  found  two  larvae  in  the  same 
acorn.  One  only,  always  only  one,  digests  the  copious 
meal  and  converts  it  into  a  greenish  dust  before  leaving 
it  and  descending  to  the  ground.  Only  an  insignificant 
shell  remains  uneaten.  The  rule  is,  to  each  grub  one 
acorn. 
Before  trusting  the  egg  to  the  acorn  it  is  therefore 
essential  to  subject  it  to  a  thorough  examination,  to 
discover  whether  it  already  has  an  occupant.  This 
possible  occupant  would  be  at  the  base  of  the  acorn, 
under  the  cover  of  the  cup.  Nothing  could  be  more 
secret  than  this  hiding-place.  Not  an  eye  could  divine 
the  inhabitant  if  the  surface  of  the  acorn  did  not  bear  the 
mark  of  a  tiny  perforation. 
This  mark,  just  visible,  is  my  guide.  Its  presence  tells 
Tne  that  the  acorn  is  inhabited,  or  at  least  that  it  has 
been  prepared  for  the  reception  of  the  egg ;  its  absence 
tells  me  that  the  acorn  has  not  yet  been  appropriated. 
The  elephant-beetle  undoubtedly  draws  the  same  con- 
clusions. 
I  see  matters  from  on  high,  with  a  comprehensive 
glance,  assisted  at  will  by  the  magnifying-glass.  I  turn 
the  acorn  between  my  fingers  for  a  moment,  and  the 
inspection  is  concluded.  The  beetle,  investigating  the 
acorn  at  close  quarters,  is  often  obliged  to  scrutinise 
practically  the  entire  surface  before  detecting  the  tell- 
tale spot.  Moreover,  the  welfare  of  her  family  demands 
a  far  more  careful  search  than  does  my  curiosity.    This 
ai8     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
is  the  reason  for  her  prolonged  and  deliberate  examina- 
tion. 
The  search  is  concluded;  the  acorn  is  recognised  as  un- 
occupied. The  drill  is  applied  to  the  surface  and  rotated 
for  hours;  then,  very  often,  the  insect  departs,  disdaining 
the  result  of  her  work.  Why  such  protracted  efforts  ? 
Was  the  beetle  piercing  the  fruit  merely  to  obtain  drink 
and  refreshment  ?  Was  the  beak  thrust  into  the  depths 
of  the  base  merely  to  obtain,  from  the  choicer  parts, 
a  few  sips  of  nutritious  sap  ?  Was  the  whole  under- 
taking merely  a  matter  of  personal  nourishment  ? 
At  first  I  believed  this  to  be  the  solution,  though 
surprised  at  the  display  of  so  much  perseverance 
rewarded  by  the  merest  sip.  The  behaviour  of  the 
males,  however,  forced  me  to  abandon  this  idea.  They 
also  possess  the  long  beak,  and  could  readily  make  such 
perforations  if  they  wished ;  yet  I  have  never  seen  one 
take  up  his  stand  upon  an  acorn  and  work  at  it  with  his 
augur.  Then  why  this  fruitless  labour  ?  A  mere  nothing 
suffices  these  abstemious  creatures.  A  superficial  opera- 
tion performed  upon  the  surface  of  a  tender  leaf  yields 
tliem  sufficient  sustenance. 
If  the  males,  the  unoccupied  males  who  have  leisure 
to  enjoy  the  pleasures  of  the  palate,  ask  no  more  than 
the  sap  of  the  leaf,  how  should  the  mothers,  busied  with 
the  affairs  of  the  breeding-season,  find  time  to  waste 
upon  such  de:irly  bought  pleasures  as  the  inner  juices  of 
the  acorn  ?  No,  the  acorn  is  not  perforated  for  the 
purpose  of  drinking  its  juices.  It  is  possible  that  once 
the  beak  is  deeply  sunk,  the  female  may  take  a  mouthful 
or  two,  but  it  is  certain  that  food  and  drink  are  not  the 
objects  in  view. 
THE  ELEPHANT-BEETLE  249 
At  iast  I  begin  to  foresee  the  solution  of  the  problem. 
The  egg,  as  I  have  said,  is  always  at  the  base  of  the 
acorn,  in  the  midst  of  a  soft  cottony  layer  which  is 
moistened  by  the  sap  which  oozes  from  the  stalk.  The 
grub,  upon  hatching  out,  being  as  yet  incapable  of 
attacking  the  firm  substance  of  the  cotyledons,  masticates 
the  delicate  felt-like  layer  at  the  base  of  the  cup  and  is 
nourished  by  its  juices. 
But  as  the  acorn  matures  this  layer  becomes  more 
solid  in  its  consistency.  The  soft  tissues  harden  ;  the 
moist  tissues  dry  up.  There  is  a  period  during  which 
the  acorn  fulfils  to  perfection  the  conditions  most  con- 
ducive to  the  welfare  of  the  grub.  At  an  earlier  period 
matters  would  not  have  reached  the  desired  stage ; 
at  a  later  period  the  acorn  would  be  too  mature. 
The  exterior  of  the  acorn  gives  no  indication  whatever 
of  the  progress  of  this  internal  cookery.  In  order  not  to 
inflict  unsuitable  food  on  the  grub,  the  mother  beetle, 
not  sufficiently  informed  by  the  look  of  the  acorn,  is  thus 
obliged  to  taste,  at  the  end  of  her  trunk,  the  tissues  at  the 
base  of  the  cup. 
The  nurse,  before  giving  her  charge  a  spoonful  of 
broth,  tests  it  by  tasting  it.  In  the  same  way  the  mother 
beetle  plunges  her  trunk  into  the  base  of  the  cup,  to  test 
the  contents  before  bestowing  them  upon  her  offspring. 
If  the  food  is  recognised  as  being  satisfactory  the  egg  is 
laid  ;  if  not,  the  perforation  is  abandoned  without  more 
ado.  This  explains  the  perforations  which  serve  no 
purpose,  in  spite  of  so  much  labour ;  the  tissues  at  the 
base  of  the  cup,  being  carefully  tested,  are  not  found  to 
be  in  the  required  condition.  The  elephant-beetles  are 
difficult  to  please  and  take  infinite  pains  when  the  first 
250     SOCIAL   LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
mouthful  of  the  grub  is  in  question.  To  place  the  egg 
in  a  position  where  the  new-born  grub  will  find  light 
and  juicy  and  easily  digested  nutriment  is  not  enough 
for  those  far-seeing  mothers  ;  their  cares  look  beyond  this 
point.  An  intermediary  period  is  desirable,  which  will  lead 
the  little  larva  from  the  delicacies  of  its  first  hours  to  the 
diet  of  hard  acorn.  This  intermediary  period  is  passed 
in  the  gallery,  the  work  of  the  maternal  beak.  There  it 
finds  the  crumbs,  the  shavings  bitten  off  by  the  chisels  of 
the  rostrum.  Moreover,  the  walls  of  the  tunnel,  which 
are  softened  by  mortification,  are  better  suited  than  the 
rest  of  the  acorn  to  the  tender  mandibles  of  the  larva. 
Before  setting  to  work  on  the  cotyledons  the  grub 
does,  in  fact,  commence  upon  the  contents  and  walls  of 
this  tiny  passage.  It  first  consumes  the  shavings  lying 
loose  in  the  passage ;  it  devours  the  brown  fragments 
adhering  to  the  walls ;  finally,  being  now  sufficiently 
strengthened,  it  attacks  the  body  of  the  acorn,  plunges 
into  it,  and  disappears.  The  stomach  is  ready ;  the  rest 
is  a  blissful  feast. 
This  intermediary  tunnel  must  be  of  a  certain  length, 
in  order  to  satisfy  the  needs  of  infancy,  so  the  mother 
must  labour  at  the  work  of  drilling.  If  the  perforation 
were  made  solely  with  the  purpose  of  tasting  the  material 
at  the  base  of  the  acorn  and  recognising  its  degree  of 
maturity,  the  operation  might  be  very  much  shorter,  since 
the  hole  could  be  sunk  through  the  cup  itself  from  a  point 
close  to  the  base.  This  fact  is  not  unrecognised  ;  I  have 
on  occasion  found  the  insect  perforating  the  scaly  cup. 
In  such  a  proceeding  I  see  the  attempt  of  a  gravid 
mother  pressed  for  time  to  obtain  prompt  information. 
If  the  acorn  is  suitable  the  boring  will  be  recommenced 
THE  ELEPHANT-BEETLE  251 
at  a  more  distant  point,  through  the  surface  of  the  acorn 
itself.  When  an  egg  is  to  be  laid  the  rule  is  to  bore  the 
hole  from  a  point  as  distant  as  is  practicable  from  the  base 
— as  far,  in  short,  as  the  length  of  the  rostrum  will  permit. 
What  is  the  object  of  this  long  perforation,  which  often 
occupies  more  than  half  the  day  ?  Why  this  tenacious 
perseverance  when,  not  far  from  the  stalk,  at  the  cost  of 
much  less  time  and  fatigue,  the  rostrum  could  attain  the 
desired  point — the  living  spring  from  which  the  new- 
born grub  is  to  drink  ?  The  mother  has  her  own  reasons 
for  toiling  in  this  manner ;  in  doing  thus  she  still  attains 
the  necessary  point,  the  base  of  the  acorn,  and  at  the 
same  time — a  most  valuable  result — she  prepares  for  the 
grub  a  long  tube  of  fine,  easily  digested  meal. 
But  these  are  trivialities  !  Not  so,  if  you  please,  but 
high  and  important  matters,  speaking  to  us  of  the  infinite 
pains  which  preside  over  the  preservation  of  the  least  of 
things  ;  witnesses  of  a  superior  logic  which  regulates  the 
smallest  details. 
The  Balaninus,  so  happily  inspired  as  a  mother,  has 
her  place  in  the  world  and  is  worthy  of  notice.  So,  at 
least,  thinks  the  blackbird,  which  gladly  makes  a  meal  of 
the  insect  with  the  long  beak  when  fruits  grow  rare  at  the 
end  of  autumn.  It  makes  a  small  mouthful,  but  a  tasty, 
and  is  a  pleasant  change  after  such  olives  as  yet  withstand 
the  cold. 
And  what  without  the  blackbird  and  its  rivalry  of  song 
were  the  reawakening  of  the  woods  in  spring  ?  Were 
man  to  disappear,  annihilated  by  his  own  foolish  errors, 
the  festival  of  the  life-bringing  season  would  be  no  less 
worthily  observed,  celebrated  by  the  fluting  of  the  yellow- 
billed  songster. 
252     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
To  the  meritorious  role  of  regaling  the  blackbird,  the 
minstrel  of  the  forest,  the  Balaninus  adds  another — that 
of  moderating  the  superfluity  of  vegetation.  Like  all 
the  mighty  who  are  worthy  of  their  strength,  the  oak  is 
generous ;  it  produces  acorns  by  the  bushel.  What 
could  the  earth  do  with  such  prodigality  ?  The  forest 
would  stifle  itself  for  want  of  room  ;  excess  would  ruin 
the  necessary. 
But  no  sooner  is  this  abundance  of  food  produced 
than  there  is  an  influx  from  every  side  of  consumers  only 
too  eager  to  abate  this  inordinate  production.  The  field- 
mouse,  a  native  of  the  woods,  stores  acorns  in  a  gravel- 
heap  near  its  hay-lined  nest.  A  stranger,  the  jay,  comes 
in  flocks  from  far  away,  warned  I  know  not  how.  For 
some  weeks  it  flies  feasting  from  oak  to  oak,  giving 
vent  to  its  joys  and  its  emotions  in  a  voice  like  that  of  a 
strangling  cat ;  then,  its  mission  accomplished,  it  returns 
to  the  North  whence  it  came. 
The  Balaninus  has  anticipated  them  all.  The  mother 
confided  her  eggs  to  the  acorns  while  yet  they  were  green. 
These  have  now  fallen  to  earth,  brown  before  their  time, 
and  pierced  by  a  round  hole  through  which  the  larva  has 
escaped  after  devouring  the  contents.  Under  one  single 
oak  a  basket  might  easily  be  filled  with  these  ruined 
shells.  More  than  the  jay,  more  than  the  field-mouse, 
the  elephant-beetle  has  contributed  to  reduce  the  super- 
fluity of  acorns. 
Presently  man  arrives,  busied  in  the  interest  of  his  pig. 
In  my  village  it  is  quite  an  important  event  when  the 
municipal  hoardings  announce  the  day  for  opening  the 
municipal  woods  for  the  gathering  of  acorns.  The  more 
zealous  visit  the  woods  the  day  before  and  select  the  best 
THE   ELEPHANT-BEETLE  263 
places.  Next  day,  at  daybreak,  the  whole  family  is  there. 
The  father  beats  the  upper  branches  with  a  pole ;  the 
mother,  wearing  a  heavy  hempen  apron  which  enables 
her  to  force  her  way  through  the  stubborn  undergrowth, 
gathers  those  within  reach  of  the  hand,  while  the  children 
collect  those  scattered  upon  the  ground.  First  the  small 
baskets  are  filled,  then  the  big  corbeilles,  and  then  the 
S3.clcS 
After  the  field-mouse,  the  jay,  the  weevil,  and  so  many 
others  have  taken  toll  comes  man,  calculating  how  many 
pounds  of  bacon-fat  his  harvest  will  be  worth.  One 
regret  mingles  with  the  cheer  of  the  occasion  ;  it  is  to 
see  so  many  acorns  scattered  on  the  ground  which  are 
pierced,  spoiled,  good  for  nothing.  And  man  curses  the 
author  of  this  destruction  ;  to  hear  him  you  would  think 
the  forest  is  meant  for  him  alone,  and  that  the  oaks  bear 
acorns  only  for  the  sake  of  his  pig. 
My  friend,  I  would  say  to  him,  the  forest  guard  cannot 
take  legal  proceedings  against  the  offender,  and  it  is  just 
as  well,  for  our  egoism,  which  is  inclined  to  see  in  the 
acorn  only  a  garland  of  sausages,  would  have  annoying 
results.  The  oak  calls  the  whole  world  to  enjoy  its  fruits. 
We  take  the  larger  part  because  we  are  the  stronger. 
That  is  our  only  right. 
More  important  than  our  rights  is  the  equitable  division 
of  the  fruits  of  the  earth  between  the  various  consumers, 
great  and  little,  all  of  whom  play  their  part  in  this  world. 
If  it  is  good  that  the  blackbird  should  flute  and  rejoice  m 
the  burgeoning  of  the  spring,  then  it  is  no  bad  thing  that 
acorns  should  be  worm-eaten.  In  the  acorn  the  dessert 
of  the  blackbird  is  prepared ;  the  Balaninus,  the  tasty 
mouthful  that  puts  flesh  upon  his  flanks  and  music  into 
his  throat. 
254     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
Let  the  blackbird  sing,  and  let  us  return  to  the  eggs  of 
the  Curculionidae.  We  know  where  the  egg  is — at  the 
base  of  the  acorn,  because  the  tenderest  and  most  juicy 
tissues  of  the  fruit  are  there.  But  how  did  it  get  there, 
so  far  from  the  point  of  entry  ?  A  very  trifling  question, 
it  is  true  ;  puerile  even,  if  you  will.  Do  not  let  us  disdain 
to  ask  it ;  science  is  made  of  these  puerilities. 
The  first  man  to  rub  a  piece  of  amber  on  his  sleeve 
and  to  find  that  it  thereupon  attracted  fragments  of  chaff 
had  certainly  no  vision  of  the  electric  marvels  of  our 
days.  He  was  amusing  himself  in  a  childlike  manner. 
Repeated,  tested,  and  probed  in  every  imaginable  way, 
the  child's  experiment  has  become  one  of  the  forces  of 
the  world. 
The  observer  must  neglect  nothing  ;  for  he  never  knows 
what  may  develop  out  of  the  humblest  fact.  So  again 
we  will  ask  :  by  what  process  did  the  egg  of  the  elephant- 
beetle  reach  a  point  so  far  from  the  orifice  in  the  acorn  ? 
To  one  who  was  not  already  aware  of  the  position  of 
the  egg,  but  knew  that  the  grub  attacked  the  base  of  the 
acorn  first,  the  solution  of  that  fact  would  be  as  follows  : 
the  egg  is  laid  at  the  entrance  of  the  tunnel,  at  the  surface, 
and  the  grub,  crawling  down  the  gallery  sunk  by  the 
mother,  gains  of  its  own  accord  this  distant  point  where 
its  infant  diet  is  to  be  found. 
Before  I  had  sufficient  data  this  was  my  own  belief ; 
but  the  mistake  was  soon  exposed.  I  plucked  an  acorn 
just  as  the  mother  withdrew,  after  having  for  a  moment 
applied  the  tip  of  the  abdomen  to  tne  orifice  of  the 
passage  just  opened  by  her  rostrum.  The  egg,  so  it 
seemed,  must  be  there,  at  the  entrance  of  the  passage.  .  .  . 
But  no,  it  was  not !     It  was  at  the  other  extremity  of  the 
I 
THE  ELEPHANT-BEETLE  255 
passage  !  If  I  dared,  I  would  say  it  had  dropped  like  a 
stone  into  a  well. 
That  idea  we  must  abandon  at  once ;  the  passage  is 
extremely  narrow  and  encumbered  with  shavings,  so  that 
such  a  thing  would  be  impossible.  Moreover,  according 
to  the  direction  of  the  stem,  accordingly  as  it  pointed 
upwards  or  downwards,  the  egg  would  have  to  fall 
downwards  in  one  acorn  and  upwards  in  another. 
A  second  explanation  suggests  itself,  not  less  perilous. 
It  might  be  said  :  "The  cuckoo  lays  her  egg  on  the  grass, 
no  matter  where ;  she  lifts  it  in  her  beak  and  places  it  in 
the  nearest  appropriate  nest."  Might  not  the  Balaninus 
follow  an  analogous  method  ?  Does  she  employ  the 
rostrum  to  place  the  egg  in  its  position  at  the  base  of  the 
acorn  ?  I  cannot  see  that  the  insect  has  any  other 
implement  capable  of  reaching  this  remote  hiding-place. 
Nevertheless,  we  must  hastily  reject  such  an  absurd 
explanation  as  a  last,  desperate  resort.  The  elephant- 
beetle  certainly  does  not  lay  its  egg  in  the  open  and  seize 
it  in  its  beak.  If  it  did  so  the  delicate  ovum  would  cer- 
tainly be  destroyed,  crushed  in  the  attempt  to  thrust  it 
down  a  narrow  passage  half  choked  with  debris. 
This  is  very  perplexing.  My  embarrassment  will  be 
shared  by  all  readers  who  are  acquainted  with  the  struc- 
ture of  the  elephant-beetle.  The  grasshopper  has  a  sabre, 
an  oviscapt  which  plunges  into  the  earth  and  sows  the 
eggs  at  the  desired  depth  ;  the  Leuscopis  has  a  probe 
which  finds  its  way  through  the  masonry  of  the  mason- 
bee  and  lays  the  egg  in  the  cocoon  of  the  great  somnolent 
larva ;  but  the  Balaninus  has  none  of  these  swords, 
daggers,  or  pikes  ;  she  has  nothing  but  the  tip  of  her 
abdomen.     Yet  she  has  only  to  apply  that  abdommal 
256     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
extremity  to  the  opening  of  the  passage,  and  the  egg  is 
immediately  lodged  at  the  very  bottom. 
Anatomy  will  give  us  the  answer  to  the  riddle,  which 
is  otherwise  indecipherable.  I  open  the  body  of  a  gravid 
female.  There,  before  my  eyes,  is  something  that  takes 
my  breath  away.  There,  occupying  the  whole  length  of 
the  body,  is  an  extraordinary  device  ;  a  red,  horny,  rigid 
rod  ;  I  had  almost  said  a  rostrum,  so  greatly  does  it 
resemble  the  implement  which  the  insect  carries  on  his 
head.  It  is  a  tube,  fine  as  a  horsehair,  slightly  enlarged 
at  the  free  extremity,  like  an  old-fashioned  blunderbuss, 
and  expanding  to  form  an  egg-shaped  capsule  at  the 
point  of  origin. 
This  is  the  oviduct,  and  its  dimensions  are  the  same  as 
those  of  the  rostrum.  As  far  as  the  perforating  beak 
can  plunge,  so  far  the  oviscapt,  the  interior  rostrum,  will 
reach.  When  working  upon  her  acorn  the  female 
chooses  the  point  of  attack  so  that  the  two  com- 
plementary instruments  can  each  of  them  reach  the 
desired  point  at  the  base  of  the  acorn. 
The  matter  now  explains  itself.  The  work  of  drilling 
completed,  the  gallery  ready,  the  mother  turns  and  places 
the  tip  of  the  abdomen  against  the  orifice.  She  extrudes 
the  internal  mechanism,  which  easily  passes  through  the 
loose  debris  of  the  boring.  No  sign  of  the  probe  appears, 
so  quickly  and  discreetly  does  it  work ;  nor  is  any  trace 
of  it  to  be  seen  when,  the  egg  having  been  properly 
deposited,  the  implement  ascends  and  returns  to  the 
abdomen.  It  is  over,  and  the  mother  departs,  and  we 
have  not  caught  a  glimpse  of  her  internal  mechanism. 
Was  I  not  right  to  insist  ?  An  apparently  insignificant 
fact  has  led  to  the  authentic  proof  of  a  fact  that  the 
THE    ELEPHANT-BEETLE  257 
Larinidae  had  already  made  me  suspect.  The  long-beaked 
weevils  have  an  internal  probe,  an  abdominal  rostrum, 
which  nothing  in  their  external  appearance  betrays  ;  they 
possess,  among  the  hidden  organs  of  the  abdomen,  the 
counterpart  of  the  grasshopper's  sabre  and  the  ichneu- 
mon's dagger. 
18 