CHAPTER   X 
THE   FIELD-CRICKET 
The  breeding  of  Crickets  demands  no  particular  pre- 
parations. A  little  patience  is  enough — patience,  which 
according  to  Biiffon  is  genius;  but  which  I,  more 
modestly,  will  call  the  superlative  virtue  of  the  observer. 
In  April,  May,  or  later  we  may  establish  isolated  couples 
in  ordinary  flower-pots  containing  a  layer  of  beaten 
earth.  Their  diet  will  consist  of  a  leaf  of  lettuce  renewed 
from  time  to  time.  The  pot  must  be  covered  with  a 
square  of  glass  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  inmates. 
1  have  grithered  some  very  curious  data  from  these 
makeshift  appliances,  which  may  be  used  with  and  as  a 
sul)stitute  for  the  cages  of  wire  gauze,  although  the  latter 
are  preferable.  We  shall  return  to  the  point  presently. 
F'or  the  moment  let  us  watch  the  process  of  breeding, 
takuig  care  that  the  critical  hour  does  not  escape  us. 
It  was  during  the  first  week  of  June  that  my  assiduous 
visits  were  at  last  repaid.  I  surprised  the  female  motion- 
less, with  the  oviduct  planted  vertically  in  the  soil.  Heed- 
less of  the  indiscreet  visitor,  she  remained  for  a  long 
time  stationed  at  the  same  point.  Finally  she  withdrew 
her  oviduct,  and  effaced,  though  without  particular  care, 
the  traces  of  the  hole  in  which  her  eggs  were  deposited, 
m 
THE  FIELD-CRICKET  121 
rested  for  a  moment,  walked  away,  and  repeated  the 
operation  ;  not  once,  but  many  times,  first  here,  then 
there,  all  over  the  area  at  her  disposal.  Her  behaviour 
was  precisely  the  same  as  that  of  the  Decticus,  except  that 
her  movements  were  more  deliberate.  At  the  end  of 
twenty-four  hours  her  eggs  were  apparently  all  laid.  For 
greater  certainty  I  waited  a  couple  of  days  longer, 
I  then  examined  the  earth  in  the  pot.  The  eggs,  of  a 
straw-yellow,  are  cylindrical  in  form,  with  rounded 
ends,  and  measure  about  one-tenth  of  an  inch  in  length. 
They  are  placed  singly  in  the  soil,  in  a  perpendicular 
position. 
I  have  found  them  over  the  whole  area  of  the  pot,  at  a 
depth  of  a  twelfth  of  an  inch.  As  closely  as  the  diffi- 
culties of  the  operation  will  allow,  I  have  estimated  the 
eggs  of  a  single  female,  upon  passing  the  earth  through  a 
sieve,  at  five  or  six  hundred.  Such  a  family  will  certainly 
undergo  an  energetic  pruning  before  very  long. 
The  egg  of  the  Cricket  is  a  curiosity,  a  tiny  mechanical 
marvel.  After  hatching  it  appears  as  a  sheath  of  opaque 
white,  open  at  the  summit,  where  there  is  a  round  and 
very  regular  aperture,  to  the  edge  of  which  adheres  a 
little  valve  like  a  skull-cap  which  forms  the  lid.  Instead 
of  breaking  at  random  under  the  thrusts  or  the  cuts  of 
the  new-formed  larva,  it  opens  of  itself  along  a  line  of  least 
resistance  which  occurs  expressly  for  the  purpose.  The 
curious  process  of  the  actual  hatching  should  be 
observed. 
A  fortnight  after  the  egg  is  laid  two  large  eye-marks, 
round  and  of  a  reddish  black,  are  seen  to  darken  the 
forward  extremity  of  the  egg.  Next,  a  little  above  these 
two  points,  and  right  at  the  end  of  the  cylinder,  a  tiny 
122    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
circular  capsule  or  swelling  is  seen.  This  marks  the  line 
of  rupture,  which  is  now  preparing.  Presently  the 
translucency  of  the  egg  allows  us  to  observe  the  fine 
segmentation  of  the  tiny  inmate.  Now  is  the  moment 
to  redouble  our  vigilance  and  to  multiply  our  visits, 
especially  during  the  earlier  part  of  the  day. 
Fortune  favours  the  patient,  and  rewards  my  assiduity 
Round  the  little  capsule  changes  of  infinite  delicacy  have 
prepared  the  line  of  least  resistance.  The  end  of  the  egg, 
pushed  by  the  head  of  the  inmate,  becomes  detached, 
rises,  and  falls  aside  like  the  top  of  a  tiny  phial.  The 
Cricket  issues  like  a  Jack-in-the-box. 
When  the  Cricket  has  departed  the  shell  remains 
distended,  smooth,  intact,  of  the  purest  white,  with  the 
circular  lid  hanging  to  the  mouth  of  the  door  of  exit. 
The  egg  of  the  bird  breaks  clumsily  under  the  blows  of  a 
wart-like  excrescence  which  is  formed  expressly  upon  the 
beak  of  the  unborn  bird  ;  the  egg  of  the  Cricket,  of  a 
far  superior  structure,  opens  like  an  ivory  casket.  The 
pressure  of  the  inmate's  head  is  sufficient  to  work  the 
hinge. 
The  moment  he  is  deprived  of  his  white  tunic,  tlie 
young  Cricket,  pale  all  over,  almost  white,  begins  to 
struggle  against  the  overlying  soil.  He  strikes  it  with 
his  mandibles ;  he  sweeps  it  aside,  kicking  it  backwards 
and  downwards  ;  and  being  of  a  powdery  quality,  which 
offers  no  particular  resistance,  he  soon  arrives  at  the 
surface,  and  henceforth  knows  the  joys  of  the  sun,  and 
the  perils  of  intercourse  with  the  living  ;  a  tiny,  feeble 
creature,  little  larger  than  a  flea.  His  colour  deepens. 
In  twenty-four  hours  he  assumes  a  splendid  ebony  black 
which  rivals  that  of  the  adult  insect.     Of  his  original 
THE   FIELD-CRICKET  123 
pallor  he  retains  only  a  white  girdle  which  encircles  the 
thorax  and  reminds  one  of  the  leading-string  of  an 
infant. 
Very  much  on  the  alert,  he  sounds  his  surroundings 
with  his  long  vibrating  antennae  ;  he  toddles  and  leaps 
along  with  a  vigour  which  his  future  obesity  will  no 
longer  permit. 
This  is  the  age  of  stomach  troubles.  What  are  we  to 
give  him  to  eat  ?  I  do  not  know.  I  offer  him  adult  diet 
— the  tender  leaves  of  a  lettuce.  He  disdains  to  bite  it ;  or 
perhaps  his  bites  escape  me,  so  tiny  would  they  be. 
In  a  few  days,  what  with  my  ten  households,  I  see 
myself  loaded  with  family  cares.  What  shall  I  do  with 
my  five  or  six  thousand  Crickets,  an  attractive  flock,  to  be 
sure,  but  one  I  cannot  bring  up  in  my  ignorance  of  the 
treatment  required  ?  I  will  give  you  liberty,  gentle 
creatures  I  I  will  confide  you  to  the  sovereign  nurse  and 
schoolmistress,  Nature  ! 
It  is  done.  Here  and  there  about  my  orchard,  in  the 
most  favourable  localities,  I  loose  my  legions.  What  a 
concert  I  shall  have  before  my  door  next  year  if  all  goes 
well !  But  no  !  There  will  probably  be  silence,  for  the 
terrible  extermination  will  follow  which  corresponds 
with  the  fertility  of  the  mother.  A  few  couples  only  may 
survive  :  that  is  the  most  we  can  hope. 
The  first  to  come  to  the  living  feast  and  the  most  eager 
at  the  slaughter  are  the  little  grey  lizard  and  the  ant.  I 
am  afraid  this  latter,  hateful  filibuster  that  it  is,  will  not 
leave  me  a  single  Cricket  in  my  garden.  It  falls  upon  the 
tiny  Crickets,  eviscerates  them,  and  devours  them  with 
frantic  greed. 
Satanic  creature  !    And  to  think  that  we  place  it  in  the 
124    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
front  rank  of  the  insect  world  I  The  books  celebrate  its 
virtues  and  never  tire  of  its  praises;  the  naturalists  hold  it 
in  high  esteem  and  add  to  its  reputation  daily  ;  so  true  is 
it  of  animals,  as  of  man,  that  of  the  various  means  of 
living  in  history  the  most  certain  is  to  do  harm  to  others 
Every  one  knows  the  Bousier  (dung-beetle)  and  the 
Necrophorus,  those  lively  murderers ;  the  gnat,  the 
drinker  of  blood  ;  the  wasp,  the  irascible  bully  with 
the  poisoned  dagger;  and  the  ant,  the  maleficent  creature 
which  in  the  villages  of  the  South  of  France  saps  and 
imperils  the  rafters  and  ceilings  of  a  dwelling  with  the 
same  energy  it  brings  to  the  eating  of  a  fig.  I  need  say 
no  more;  human  history  is  full  of  similar  examples  of  the 
useful  misunderstood  and  undervalued  and  the  calami- 
tous glorified. 
What  with  the  ants  and  other  exterminating  forces,  the 
massacre  was  so  great  that  the  colonies  of  Crickets  in  my 
orchard,  so  numerous  at  the  outset,  were  so  far  decimated 
that  I  could  not  continue  my  observations,  but  had  to 
resort  to  the  outside  world  for  further  information. 
In  August,  among  the  detritus  of  decaying  leaves,  in 
little  oases  whose  turf  is  not  burned  by  the  sun,  I  find 
the  young  Cricket  has  already  grown  to  a  considerable 
size  ;  he  is  all  black,  like  the  adult,  without  a  vestige  of 
the  white  cincture  of  the  early  days.  He  has  no  domicile 
The  shelter  of  a  dead  leaf,  the  cover  afforded  by  a  flat 
stone  is  sufficient ;  he  is  a  nomad,  and  careless  where  he 
takes  his  repose. 
Not  until  the  end  of  October,  when  the  first  frosts 
are  at  hand,  does  the  work  of  burrowing  commence. 
The  operation  is  very  simple,  as  far  as  1  can  tell  from 
what  I  have  learned  from  the  insect  in  captivity.     The 
t.    THK    KIELU-CKICKKT.       A    DUICI.    liKTWKEN-    KIVAI.S. 
2.    THK    FIE1,D-CUICKKT.      THK    DKFKATKl)    UIVAI.     KI-TIKI-S,    INSLI.riJi 
I5Y    Till':    VICToK. 
To  face  p.  114. 
THE  FIELD-CRICKET  125 
burrow  is  never  made  at  a  bare  or  conspicuous  point  ;  it 
is  always  commenced  under  the  shelter  of  a  faded  leaf  of 
lettuce,  the  remains  of  the  food  provided.  This  takes  the 
place  of  the  curtain  of  grass  so  necessary  to  preserve  the 
mysterious  privacy  of  the  establishment. 
The  little  miner  scratches  with  his  fore-claws,  but  also 
makes  use  of  the  pincers  of  his  mandibles  in  order  to 
remove  pieces  of  grit  or  gravel  of  any  size.  I  see  him 
stamping  with  his  powerful  hinder  limbs,  which  are  pro- 
vided with  a  double  row  of  spines  ;  I  see  him  raking  and 
sweeping  backwards  the  excavated  material,  and  spread- 
ing it  out  in  an  inclined  plane.   This  is  his  whole  method. 
At  first  the  work  goes  forward  merrily.  The  excavator 
disappears  under  the  easily  excavated  soil  of  his  prison 
after  two  hours'  labour.  At  intervals  he  returns  to  the 
orifice,  always  tail  first,  and  always  raking  and  sweeping. 
If  fatigue  overcomes  him  he  rests  on  the  threshold  of  his 
burrow,  his  head  projecting  outwards,  his  antennae 
gently  vibrating.  Presently  he  re-enters  his  tunnel  and 
sets  to  work  again  with  his  pincers  and  rakes.  Pre- 
sently his  periods  of  repose  grow  longer  and  tire  my 
patience. 
The  most  important  part  of  the  work  is  now  com- 
pleted. Once  the  burrow  has  attained  a  depth  of  a 
couple  of  inches,  it  forms  a  sufficient  shelter  for  the 
needs  of  the  moment.  The  rest  will  be  the  work  of 
time  ;  a  labour  resumed  at  will,  for  a  short  time  daily. 
The  burrow  will  be  made  deeper  and  wider  as  the  growth 
of  the  inmate  and  the  inclemency  of  the  season  demand. 
Even  in  winter,  if  the  weather  is  mild,  and  the  sun  smiles 
upon  the  threshold  of  his  dwelling,  one  may  sometimes 
surprise   the   Cricket   thrusting    out  small  quantities  of 
126    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
loosened  earth,  a  sign  of  enlargement  and  of  further 
burrowing.  In  the  midst  of  the  joys  of  spring  the  cares 
of  the  house  still  continue ;  it  is  constantly  restored  and 
perfected  until  the  death  of  the  occupant. 
April  comes  to  an  end,  and  the  song  of  the  Cricket 
commences.  At  first  we  hear  only  timid  and  occasional 
solos  ;  but  very  soon  there  is  a  general  symphony,  when 
every  scrap  of  turf  has  its  performer.  I  am  inclined  to 
place  the  Cricket  at  the  head  of  the  choristers  of  spring. 
In  the  waste  lands  of  Provence,  when  the  thyme  and 
the  lavender  are  in  flower,  the  Cricket  mingles  his  note 
with  that  of  the  crested  lark,  which  ascends  like  a  lyrical 
firework,  its  throat  swelling  with  music,  to  its  invisible 
station  in  the  clouds,  whence  it  pours  its  liquid  arias  upon 
the  plain  below.  From  the  ground  the  chorus  of  the 
Crickets  replies.  It  is  monotonous  and  artless,  yet  how 
well  it  harmonises,  in  its  very  simplicity,  with  the  rustic 
gaiety  of  a  world  renewed  1  It  is  the  hosanna  of  the 
awakening,  the  alleluia  of  the  germinating  seed  and  the 
sprouting  blade.  To  which  of  the  two  performers  should 
the  palm  be  given  ?  I  should  award  it  to  the  Cricket ;  he 
triumphs  by  force  of  numbers  and  his  never-ceasing  note. 
The  lark  hushes  her  song,  that  the  blue-grey  fields  of 
lavender,  swinging  their  aromatic  censers  before  the  sun. 
may  hear  the  Cricket  alone  at  his  humble,  solemn 
celebration. 
But  here  the  anatomist  intervenes,  roughly  demanding 
of  the  Cricket :  "  Show  me  your  instrument,  the  source  of 
your  music  !  "  Like  all  things  of  real  value,  it  is  very 
simple  ;  it  is  based  on  the  same  principle  as  that  of  the 
locusts  ;  there  is  tlie  toothed  fiddlestick  and  the  vibrating 
tympanum. 
THE   FIELD-CRICKET  127 
The  right  wing-cover  overlaps  the  left  and  almost  com- 
pletely covers  it,  except  for  the  sudden  fold  which  encases 
the  insect's  flank.  This  arrangement  is  the  reverse  of 
that  exhibited  by  the  green  grasshopper,  the  Decticus, 
the  Ephippigera,  and  their  relations.  The  Cricket  is 
right-handed,  the  others  left-handed.  The  two  wing- 
covers  have  the  same  structure.  To  know  one  is  to 
know  the  other.  Let  us  examine  that  on  the  right 
hand. 
It  is  almost  flat  on  the  back,  but  suddenly  folds  over  at 
the  side,  the  turn  being  almost  at  right  angles.  This 
lateral  fold  encloses  the  flank  of  the  abdomen  and  is 
covered  with  fine  oblique  and  parallel  nervures.  The 
powerful  nervures  of  the  dorsal  portion  of  the  wing-cover 
are  of  the  deepest  black,  and  their  general  eflfect  is  that 
of  a  complicated  design,  not  unlike  a  tangle  of  Arabic 
caligraphy. 
Seen  by  transmitted  light  the  wing-cover  is  of  a  very 
pale  reddish  colour,  excepting  two  large  adjacent  spaces, 
one  of  which,  the  larger  and  anterior,  is  triangular  in 
shape,  while  the  other,  the  smaller  and  posterior,  is  oval. 
Each  space  is  surrounded  by  a  strong  nervure  and  goffered 
by  slight  wrinkles  or  depressions.  These  two  spaces  re- 
present the  mirror  of  the  locust  tribe  ;  they  constitute  the 
sonorous  area.  The  substance  of  the  wing-cover  is  finer 
here  than  elsewhere,  and  shows  traces  of  iridescent  though 
somewhat  smoky  colour. 
These  are  parts  of  an  admirable  instrument,  greatly  su- 
perior to  that  of  the  Decticus.  The  five  hundred  prisms  of 
the  bow  biting  upon  the  ridges  of  the  wing-cover  opposed 
to  it  set  all  four  tympanums  vibrating  at  once  ;  the  lower 
pair  by  direct  friction,  the  upper  pair  by  the  vibration  of 
128    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
the  wing-cover  itself.  What  a  powerful  sound  results  ! 
The  Decticus,  endowed  with  only  one  indiflPerent 
"  mirror,"  can  be  heard  only  at  a  few  paces  ;  the  Cricket, 
the  possessor  of  four  vibratory  areas,  can  be  heard  at 
a  hundred  yards. 
The  Cricket  rivals  the  Cigale  in  loudness,  but  his  note 
has  not  the  displeasing,  raucous  quality  of  the  latter. 
Better  still  :  he  has  the  gift  of  expression,  for  he  can  sing 
loud  or  soft.  The  wing-covers,  as  we  have  seen,  are  pro- 
longed in  a  deep  fold  over  each  flank.  These  folds  are 
the  dampers,  which,  as  they  are  pressed  downwards  or 
slightly  raised,  modify  the  intensity  of  the  sound,  and 
according  to  the  extent  of  their  contact  with  the  soft 
abdomen  now  muffle  the  song  to  a  mezza  voce  and  now 
let  it  sound  fortissimo. 
Peace  reigns  in  the  cage  until  the  warlike  instinct  of 
the  mating  period  breaks  out.  These  duels  between 
rivals  are  frequent  and  lively,  but  not  very  serious.  The 
two  rivals  rise  up  against  one  another,  biting  at  one 
another's  heads — these  solid,  fang-proof  helmets — roll 
each  other  over,  pick  themselves  up,  and  separate.  The 
vanquished  Cricket  scuttles  off  as  fast  as  he  can  ;  the 
victor  insults  him  by  a  couple  of  triumphant  and  boast- 
ful chirps ;  then,  moderating  his  tone,  he  tacks  and 
veers  about  the  desired  one. 
The  lover  proceeds  to  make  himself  smart.  Hooking 
one  of  his  antennae  towards  him  with  one  of  his  free 
claws,  he  takes  it  between  his  mandibles  in  order  to  curl 
it  and  moisten  it  with  saliva.  With  his  long  hind  legs, 
spurred  and  laced  with  red,  he  stamps  with  impatience 
and  kicks  out  at  nothing.  Emotion  renders  him  silent. 
His  wing-covers  are  nevertheless  in  rapid  motion,  but 
THE  FIELD-CRICKET  129 
are  no  longer  sounding,  or  at  most  emit  but  an 
unrhythmical   rubbing   sound. 
Presumptuous  declaration  !  The  female  Cricket  does 
not  run  to  hide  herself  in  the  folds  of  her  lettuce  leaves ; 
but  she  lifts  the  curtain  a  little,  and  looks  out,  and  wishes 
to  be  seen  : — 
Et  fugit  ad  salices,  et  se  cupit  ante  videri. 
She  flies  towards  the  brake,  but  hopes  first  to  be 
perceived,  said  the  poet  of  the  delightful  eclogue,  two 
thousand  years  ago.  Sacred  provocations  of  lovers, 
are  they  not  in  all  ages  the  same  ? 
10 