CHAPTER   XIV 
THE   GREAT  PEACOCK,   OR   EMPEROR  MOTH 
It  was  a  memorable  night !  I  will  name  it  the  Night 
of  the  Great  Peacock,  Who  does  not  know  this  superb 
moth,  the  largest  of  all  our  European  butterflieSj^with  its 
livery  of  chestnut  velvet  and  its  collar  of  white  fur  ? 
The  greys  and  browns  of  the  wings  are  crossed  by  a 
paler  zig-zag,  and  bordered  with  smoky  white  ;  and  in 
the  centre  of  each  wing  is  a  round  spot,  a  great  eye  with 
a  black  pupil  and  variegated  iris,  resolving  into  concentric 
arcs  of  black,  white,  chestnut,  and  purplish  red. 
Not  less  remarkable  is  the  caterpillar.  Its  colour  is  a 
vague  yellow.  On  the  summit  of  thinly  sown  tubercles 
crowned  with  a  palisade  of  black  hairs  are  set  pearls  of  a 
turquoise-blue.  The  burly  brown  cocoon,  which  is 
notable  for  its  curious  tunnel  of  exit,  like  an  eel-pot,  is 
always  found  at  the  base  of  an  old  almond-tree,  adhering 
to  the  bark.  The  foliage  of  the  same  tree  nourishes 
the  caterpillar. 
On  the  morning  of  the  6th  of  May  a  female  emerged 
from  her  cocoon  in  my  presence  on  my  laboratory  table. 
I  cloistered  her  immediately,  all  damp  with  the  moisture 
of  metamorphosis,  in  a  cover  of  wire  gauze.     I  had  no 
particular  intentions    regarding  her  ;    1  imprisoned  her 
»  The  word  "  butterfly  "  is  here  used,  as  is  the  French  papillon,  as 
a  general  term  for  all  Lepidoptera ;  the  insect  in  question  is 
of  course  a  moth. 
179 
180     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
from  mere  habit ;  the  habit  of  an  observer  always  on  the 
alert  for  what  may  happen. 
I  was  richly  rewarded.  About  nine  o'clock  that 
evening,  when  the  household  was  going  to  bed,  there 
was  a  sudden  hubbub  in  the  room  next  to  mine.  Little 
Paul,  half  undressed,  was  rushing  to  and  fro,  running, 
jumping,  stamping,  and  overturning  the  chairs  as  if 
possessed.  I  heard  him  call  me.  "  Come  quick ! "  he 
shrieked ;  "  come  and  see  these  butterflies  1  Big  as 
birds  !     The  room's  full  of  them  !  " 
I  ran.  There  was  that  which  justified  the  child's 
enthusiasm  and  his  hardly  hyperbolical  exclamation.  It 
was  an  invasion  of  giant  butterflies  ;  an  invasion  hitherto 
unexampled  in  our  house.  Four  were  already  caught 
and  placed  in  a  bird-cage.  Others — numbers  of  them — 
were  flying  across  the  ceiling. 
This  astonishing  sight  recalled  the  prisoner  of  the 
morning  to  my  mind.  "  Put  on  your  togs,  kiddy  1  "  I 
told  my  son  ;  "  put  down  your  cage,  and  come  with  me. 
We  shall  see  something  worth   seeing." 
We  had  to  go  downstairs  to  reach  my  study,  which 
occupies  the  right  wing  of  the  house.  In  the  kitchen  we 
met  the  servant ;  she  too  was  bewildered  by  the  state  of 
aflFairs.  She  was  pursuing  the  huge  butterflies  with  her 
apron,  having  taken  them  at  first  for  bats. 
It  seemed  as  though  the  Great  Peacock  had  taken 
possession  of  my  whole  house,  more  or  less.  What 
would  it  be  upstairs,  where  the  prisoner  was,  the  cause  of 
this  invasion  ?  Happily  one  of  the  two  study  windows 
had  been  left  ajar  ;  the  road  was  open. 
Candle  in  hand,  we  entered  the  room.  What  we  saw 
is  unforgettable.    With  a  soft  fiic-flac  the  great  night-moths 
>^ 
THE  GREAT  PEACOCK  181 
were  flying  round  tlie  wire-gauze  cover,  alighting,  taking 
flight,  returning,  mounting  to  the  ceiling,  re-descending. 
They  rushed  at  the  candle  and  extinguished  it  with  a 
flap  of  the  wing  ;  they  fluttered  on  our  shoulders,  clung 
to  our  clothing,  grazed  our  faces.  My  study  had  become 
a  cave  of  a  necromancer,  the  darkness  alive  with 
creatures  of  the  night  !  Little  Paul,  to  reassure  himself, 
held  my  hand  much  tighter  than  usual. 
How  many  were  there  ?  About  twenty.  To  these  add 
tliose  which  had  strayed  into  the  kitchen,  the  nursery, 
and  other  rooms  in  the  house,  and  the  total  must  have 
been  nearly  forty.  It  was  a  memorable  sight — the  Night 
of  the  Great  Peacock  !  Come  from  all  points  of  the 
compass,  warned  I  know  not  how,  here  were  forty  lovers 
.eager  to  do  homage  to  the  maiden  princess  that  morning 
born  in  the  sacred  precincts  of  my  study. 
For  the  time  being  I  troubled  the  swarm  of  pretenders 
no  further.  The  flame  of  the  candle  endangered  the 
visitors ;  they  threw  themselves  into  it  stupidly  and 
singed  themselves  slightly.  On  the  morrow  we  could 
resume  our  study  of  them,  and  make  certain  carefully 
devised  experiments. 
To  clear  the  ground  a  little  for  what  is  to  follow,  let 
me  speak  of  what  was  repeated  every  night  during  the 
eight  nights  my  observations  lasted.  Every  night,  when 
it  was  quite  dark,  between  eight  and  ten  o'clock,  the 
butterflies  arrived  one  by  one.  The  weather  was  stormy  ; 
the  sky  heavily  clouded ;  the  darkness  was  so  profound 
that  out  of  doors,  in  the  garden  and  away  from  the  trees, 
one  could  scarcely  see  one's  hand  before  one's  face. 
In  addition  to  such  darkness  as  this  there  were  certain 
difficulties   of    access.     The   house   is    hidden  by  great 
182     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
plane-trees  ;  an  alley  densely  bordered  with  lilacs  and 
rose-trees  make  a  kind  of  outer  vestibule  to  the  entrance  ; 
it  is  protected  from  the  mistral  by  groups  of  pines  and 
screens  of  cypress.  A  thicket  of  evergreen  shrubs  forms 
a  rampart  at  a  few  paces  from  the  door.  It  was  across 
this  maze  of  leafage,  and  in  absolute  darkness,  that  the 
butterflies  had  to  find  their  way  in  order  to  attain  the 
end  of  their  pilgrimage. 
Under  such  conditions  the  screech-owl  would  not  dare 
to  forsake  its  hollow  in  the  olive-tree.  The  butterfly, 
better  endowed  with  its  faceted  eyes  than  the  owl  with 
its  single  pupils,  goes  forward  without  hesitation,  and 
threads  the  obstacles  without  contact.  So  well  it  directs 
its  tortuous  flight  that,  in  spite  of  all  the  obstacles  to  be 
evaded,  it  arrives  in  a  state  of  perfect  freshness,  its  great 
wings  intact,  without  the  slightest  flaw.  The  darkness  is 
light  enough  for  the  butterfly. 
Even  if  we  suppose  it  to  be  sensitive  to  rays  unknown 
to  the  ordinary  retina,  this  extraordinary  sight  could  not 
be  the  sense  that  warns  the  butterfly  at  a  distance  and 
brings  it  hastening  to  the  bride.  Distance  and  the 
objects  interposed  make  the  suggestion  absurd. 
Moreover,  apart  from  illusory  refractions,  of  which 
there  is  no  question  here,  the  indications  of  light  are 
precise  ;  one  goes  straight  to  the  object  seen.  But  the 
butterfly  was  sometimes  mistaken  :  not  in  the  general 
direction,  but  concerning  the  precise  position  of  the 
attractive  object.  I  have  mentioned  that  the  nursery  on 
the  other  side  of  the  house  to  my  study,  which  was  the 
actual  goal  of  the  visitors,  was  full  of  butterflies  before  a 
light  was  taken  into  it.  These  were  certainly  incorrectly 
informed.     In  the  kitchen  there  was  the  same  crowd  of 
THE   GREAT  PEACOCK  183 
seekers  gone  astray  ;  but  there  the  hght  of  a  lamp,  an 
irresistible  attraction  to  nocturnal  insects,  might  have 
diverted  the  pilgrims. 
Let  us  consider  only  such  areas  as  were  in  darkness. 
There  the  pilgrims  were  numerous.  I  found  them 
almost  everywhere  in  the  neighbourhood  of  their  goal. 
When  the  captive  was  in  my  study  the  butterflies  did  not 
all  enter  by  the  open  window,  the  direct  and  easy  way, 
the  captive  being  only  a  few  yards  from  the  window. 
Several  penetrated  the  house  downstairs,  wandered 
through  the  hall,  and  reached  the  staircase,  which  was 
barred  at  the  top  by  a  closed  door. 
These  data  show  us  that  the  visitors  to  the  wedding- 
feast  did  not  go  straight  to  their  goal  as  they  would  have 
done  were  they  attracted  by  any  kind  of  luminous 
radiations,  whether  known  or  unknown  to  our  physical 
science.  Something  other  than  radiant  energy  warned 
them  at  a  distance,  led  them  to  the  neighbourhood  of  the 
precise  spot,  and  left  the  final  discovery  to  be  made  after 
a  vague  and  hesitating  search.  The  senses  of  hearing 
and  smell  warn  us  very  much  in  this  way  ;  they  are  not 
precise  guides  when  we  try  to  determine  exactly  the  point 
of  origin  of  a  sound  or  smell. 
What  sense  is  it  that  informs  this  great  butterfly  of  the 
whereabouts  of  his  mate,  and  leads  him  wandering 
through  the  night  ?  What  organ  does  this  sense  affect  ? 
One  suspects  the  antennae  ;  in  the  male  butterfly  they 
actually  seem  to  be  sounding,  interrogating  empty 
space  with  their  long  feathery  plumes.  Are  these 
splendid  plumes  merely  items  of  finery,  or  do  they  really 
play  a  part  in  the  perception  of  the  effluvia  which  guide 
the  lover  ?  It  seemed  easy,  on  the  occasion  I  spoke  of, 
to  devise  a  conclusive  experiment. 
184     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE  INSECT  WORLD 
On  the  morrow  of  the  invasion  I  found  in  my  study 
eight  of  my  nocturnal  visitors.  They  were  perched, 
motionless,  upon  the  cross-mouldings  of  the  second 
window,  which  had  remained  closed.  The  others, 
having  concluded  their  ballet  by  about  ten  o'clock  at 
night,  had  left  as  they  had  entered,  by  the  other  window, 
which  was  left  open  night  and  day.  These  eight  perse- 
vering lovers  were  just  what  I  required  for  my 
experiment. 
With  a  sharp  pair  of  scissors,  and  without  otherwise 
touching  the  butterflies,  I  cut  off  their  antennae  near  the 
base.  The  victims  barely  noticed  the  operation.  None 
moved  ;  there  was  scarcely  a  flutter  of  the  wings.  Their 
condition  was  excellent ;  the  wound  did  not  seem  to  be 
in  the  least  serious.  They  were  not  perturbed  by 
physical  suffering,  and  would  therefore  be  all  the  better 
adapted  to  my  designs.  They  passed  the  rest  of  the 
day  in  placid  immobility  on  the  cross-bars  of  the 
window. 
A  few  other  arrangements  were  still  to  be  made.  In 
particular  it  was  necessary  to  change  the  scene  ;  not  to 
leave  the  female  under  the  eyes  of  the  mutilated  butter- 
flies at  the  moment  of  resuming  their  nocturnal  flight  ; 
the  difficulty  of  the  search  must  not  be  lessened,  I 
therefore  removed  the  cage  and  its  captive,  and  placed  it 
under  a  porch  on  the  other  side  of  the  house,  at  a 
distance  of  some  fifty  paces  from  my  study. 
At  nightfall  I  went  for  a  last  time  to  inspect  my  eight 
victims.  Cix  had  left  by  the  open  window  ;  two  still 
remained,  but  they  had  fallen  on  the  floor,  and  no  longer 
had  the  strength  to  recover  themselves  if  turned  over  on 
their    backs.     They    were    exhausted,    dying.     Do    not 
THE  GREAT  PEACOCK  185 
accuse  my  surgery,  however.  Such  early  decease  was 
observed  repeatedly,  with  no  intervention  on  my  part. 
Six,  in  better  condition,  had  departed.  Would  they 
I  eturn  to  the  call  that  attracted  them  the  night  before  ? 
Deprived  of  their  antennae,  would  they  be  able  to  find 
the  captive,  now  placed  at  a  considerable  distance  from 
her  original  position  ? 
The  cage  was  in  darkness,  almost  in  the  open  air. 
From  time  to  time  I  visited  it  with  a  net  and  lantern. 
The  visitors  were  captured,  inspected,  and  immediately 
released  in  a  neighbouring  room,  of  which  I  closed  the 
door.  This  gradual  elimination  allowed  me  to  count 
the  visitors  exactly  without  danger  of  counting  the  same 
butterfly  more  than  once.  Moreover,  the  provisional 
prison,  large  and  bare,  in  no  wise  harmed  or  endangered 
the  prisoners ;  they  found  a  quiet  retreat  there  and 
ample  space.  Similar  precautions  were  taken  during  the 
rest  of  my  experiments. 
After  half-past  ten  no  more  arrived.  The  reception 
was  over.  Total,  twenty-five  males  captured,  of  which 
one  only  was  deprived  of  its  antennae.  So  of  the  six 
operated  on  earlier  in  the  day,  which  were  strong  enough 
to  leave  my  study  and  fly  back  to  the  fields,  only  one  had 
returned  to  the  cage.  A  poor  result,  in  which  I  could 
place  no  confidence  as  proving  whether  the  antennae 
did  or  did  not  play  a  directing  part.  It  was  necessary  to 
begin  again  upon  a  larger  scale. 
Next  morning  I  visited  the  prisoners  of  the  day  before. 
What  I  saw  was  not  encouraging.  A  large  number  were 
scattered  on  the  ground,  almost  inert.  Taken  between 
the  fingers,  several  of  them  gave  scarcely  a  sign  of  life. 
Little  was  to  be  hoped  from  these,  it  would  seem.     StilU 
186     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
I  determined  to  try;  perhaps  they  would  regain  their 
vigour  at  the  lover's  hour. 
The  twenty-four  prisoners  were  all  subjected  to  the 
amputation  of  their  antennae.  The  one  operated  on  the 
day  before  was  put  aside  as  dying  or  nearly  so.  Finally 
the  door  of  the  prison  was  left  open  for  the  rest  of  the 
day.  Those  might  leave  who  could  ;  those  could  join 
in  the  carnival  who  were  able.  In  order  '.o  put  those 
that  might  leave  the  room  to  the  test  of  a  search,  the 
cage,  which  they  must  otherwise  have  encountered  at 
the  threshold,  was  again  removed,  and  placed  in  a  room 
of  the  opposite  wing,  on  the  ground  floor.  There  was 
of  course  free  access  to  this  room. 
Of  the  twenty-four  lacking  their  antennae  sixteen  only 
left  the  room.  Eight  were  powerless  to  do  so  ;  they 
were  dying.  Of  the  sixteen,  how  many  returned  to  the 
cage  that  night  ?  Not  one.  My  captives  that  night  were 
only  seven,  all  new-comers,  all  wearing  antennae.  This 
result  seemed  to  prove  that  the  amputation  of  the 
antennae  was  a  matter  of  serious  significance.  But  it 
would  not  do  to  conclude  as  yet :  one  doubt  remained. 
"A  fine  state  I  am  in  !  How  shall  I  dare  to  appear 
before  the  other  dogs  ?"  said  Mouflard,  the  puppy  whose 
ears  had  been  pitilessly  docked.  Had  my  butterflies 
apprehensions  similar  to  Master  Mouflard's  ?  Deprived 
of  their  beautiful  plumes,  were  they  ashamed  to  appear 
in  the  midst  of  their  rivals,  and  to  prefer  their  suits  ? 
Was  it  confusion  on  their  part,  or  want  of  guidance  ? 
Was  it  not  rather  exhaustion  after  an  attempt  exceeding 
the  duration  of  an  ephemeral  passion  ?  Experience 
would  show  me. 
On  the  fourth  night  I  took  fourteen  newcomers  and 
THE   GREAT  PEACo  187 
set  them  apart  as  they  came  in  a  room  in  which  they 
spent  the  night.  On  the  morrow,  profiting  by  their 
diurnal  immobility,  I  removed  a  Httle  of  the  hair  from 
the  centre  of  the  corselet  or  neck.  This  slight  tonsure 
did  not  inconvenience  the  insects,  so  easily  was  the  silky 
fur  removed,  nor  did  it  deprive  them  of  any  organ  which 
might  later  on  be  necessary  in  the  search  for  the  female. 
To  them  it  was  nothing  ;  for  me  it  was  the  unmistakable 
sign  of  a  repeated  visit. 
This  time  there  were  none  incapable  of  flight.  At 
night  the  fourteen  shavelings  escaped  into  the  open  air. 
The  cage,  of  course,  was  again  in  a  new  place.  In  two 
hours  I  captured  twenty  butterflies,  of  whom  two  were 
tonsured  ;  no  more.  As  for  those  whose  antennae  I  had 
amputated  the  night  before,  not  one  reappeared.  Their 
nuptial  period  was  over. 
Of  fourteen  marked  by  the  tonsure  two  only  returned. 
Why  did  the  other  twelve  fail  to  appear,  although 
furnished  with  their  supposed  guides,  their  antennae? 
To  this  I  can  see  only  one  reply :  that  the  Great  Peacock 
is  promptly  exhausted  by  the  ardours  of  the  mating 
season. 
With  a  view  to  mating,  the  sole  end  of  its  life,  the 
great  moth  is  endowed  with  a  marvellous  prerogative.  It 
has  the  power  to  discover  the  object  of  its  desire  in  spite 
of  distance,  in  spite  of  obstacles.  A  few  hours,  for  two 
or  three  nights,  are  given  to  its  search,  its  nuptial  flights. 
If  it  cannot  profit  by  them,  all  is  ended  ;  the  compass 
fails,  the  lamp  expires.  What  profit  could  life  hold 
henceforth  ?  Stoically  the  creature  withdraws  into  a 
corner  and  sleeps  the  last  sleep,  the  end  of  illusions  and 
the  end  of  suffering. 
188     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
The  Great  Peacock  exists  as  a  butterfly  only  to  per- 
petuate itself.  It  knows  nothing  of  food.  While  so 
many  others,  joyful  banqueters,  fly  from  flower  to  flower, 
unrolling  their  spiral  trunks  to  plunge  them  into  honeyed 
blossoms,  this  incomparable  ascetic,  completely  freed 
from  the  servitude  of  the  stomach,  has  no  means  of 
restoring  its  strength.  Its  buccal  members  are  mere 
vestiges,  useless  simulacra,  not  real  organs  able  to 
perform  their  duties.  Not  a  sip  of  honey  can  ever 
enter  its  stomach  ;  a  magnificent  prerogative,  if  it  is 
not  long  enjoyed.  If  the  lamp  is  to  burn  it  must  be 
filled  with  oil.  The  Great  Peacock  renounces  the  joys 
of  the  palate ;  but  with  them  it  surrenders  long  life. 
Two  or  three  nights — just  long  enough  to  allow  the 
couple  to  meet  and  mate — and  all  is  over  ;  the  great 
butterfly  is  dead. 
What,  then,  is  meant  by  the  non-appearance  of  those 
whose  antennae  I  removed  ?  Did  they  prove  that  the 
lack  of  antennae  rendered  them  incapable  of  finding  the 
cage  in  which  the  prisoner  waited  ?  By  no  means.  Like 
those  marked  with  the  tonsure,  which  had  undergone  no 
damaging  operation,  they  proved  only  that  their  time 
was  finished.  Mutilated  or  intact,  they  could  do  no 
more  on  account  of  age,  and  their  absence  meant  nothing. 
Owing  to  the  delay  inseparable  from  the  experiment,  the 
part  played  by  the  antennae  escaped  me.  It  was  doubtful 
before;  it  remained  doubtful. 
My  prisoner  under  the  wire-gauze  cover  lived  for 
eight  days.  Every  night  she  attracted  a  swarm  of 
visitors,  now  to  one  part  of  the  house,  now  to  another. 
I  caught  them  with  the  net  and  released  them  as  soon  as 
captured  in  a  closed  room,  where  they  passed  the  night. 
THE  GREAT  PEACOCK:  189 
On  the  next  day  they  were  marked,  by  means  of  a  slight 
tonsure  on  the  thorax. 
The  total  number  of  butterflies  attracted  on  these  eight 
nights  amounted  to  a  hundred  and  fifty ;  a  stupendous 
number  when  I  consider  what  searches  I  had  to  under- 
take during  the  two  following  years  in  order  to  collect 
the  specimens  necessary  to  the  continuation  of  my 
investigation.  Without  being  absolutely  undiscoverable, 
in  my  immediate  neighbourhood  the  cocoons  of  the 
Great  Peacock  are  at  least  extremely  rare,  as  the  trees  on 
which  they  are  found  are  not  common.  For  two  winters 
I  visited  all  the  decrepit  almond-trees  at  hand,  inspected 
them  all  at  the  base  of  the  trunk,  under  the  jungle  of 
stubborn  grasses  and  undergrowth  that  surrounded  them ; 
and  how  often  I  returned  with  empty  hands  !  Thus  my 
hundred  and  fifty  butterflies  had  come  from  some  little 
distance  ;  perhaps  from  a  radius  of  a  mile  and  a  quarter 
or  more.  How  did  they  learn  of  what  was  happening 
in  my  study  ? 
Three  agents  of  information  affect  the  senses  at  a 
distance  :  sight,  sound,  and  smell.  Can  we  speak  of 
vision  in  this  connection  ?  Sight  could  very  well  guide 
the  arrivals  once  they  had  entered  the  open  window ; 
but  how  could  it  help  them  out  of  doors,  among 
unfamiliar  surroundings  ?  Even  the  fabulous  eye  of  the 
lynx,  which  could  see  through  walls,  would  not  be 
sufficient ;  we  should  have  to  imagine  a  keenness  of  vision 
capable  of  annihilating  leagues  of  space.  It  is  needless 
to  discuss  the  matter  further ;  sight  cannot  be  the 
guiding  sense. 
Sound  is  equally  out  of  the  question.  The  big-bodied 
creature  capable  of  caUing  her  mates  from  such  a  distance 
190     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
is  absolutely  mute,  even  to  the  most  sensitive  ear.  Does 
she  perhaps  emit  vibrations  of  such  delicacy  or  rapidity 
that  only  the  most  sensitive  microphone  could  appreciate 
them  ?  The  idea  is  barely  possible  ;  but  let  us  remember 
that  the  visitors  must  have  been  warned  at  distances  of 
some  thousands  of  yards.  Under  these  conditions  it  is 
useless  to  think  of  acoustics. 
Smell  remains.  Scent,  better  than  any  other  impres- 
sion in  the  domain  of  our  senses,  would  explain  the 
invasion  of  butterflies,  and  their  difficulty  at  the  very 
last  in  immediately  finding  the  object  of  their  search. 
Are  there  effluvia  analogous  to  what  we  call  odour: 
efBuvia  of  extreme  subtlety,  absolutely  imperceptible  to 
us,  yet  capable  of  stimulating  a  sense-organ  far  more 
sensitive  than  our  own  ?  A  simple  experiment  suggested 
itself.  I  would  mask  these  effluvia,  stifle  them  under  a 
powerful,  tenacious  odour,  which  would  take  complete 
possession  of  the  sense-organ  and  neutralise  the  less 
powerful  impression. 
I  began  by  sprinkling  naphthaline  in  the  room  intended 
for  the  reception  of  the  males  that  evening.  Beside  the 
temale,  inside  the  wire-gauze  cover,  I  placed  a  large 
capsule  full  of  the  same  substance.  When  the  hour  of 
the  nocturnal  visit  arrived  I  had  only  to  stand  at  the 
door  of  the  room  to  smell  a  smell  as  of  a  gas-works. 
Well,  my  artifice  failed.  The  butterflies  arrived  as  usual, 
entered  the  room,  traversed  its  gas-laden  atmosphere, 
and  made  for  the  wire-gauze  cover  with  the  same 
certainty  as  in  a  room  full  of  fresh  air. 
My  confidence  in  the  olfactory  theory  was  shaken. 
Moreover,  I  could  not  continue  my  experiments.  On 
the    ninth    day,   exhausted   by   her   fruitless    period   of 
THE  GREAT  PEACOCK  191 
waiting,  the  female  died,  having  first  deposited  her 
barren  eggs  upon  the  woven  wire  of  her  cage.  Lacking 
a  female,  nothing  could  be  done  until  the  following  year. 
I  determined  next  time  to  take  suitable  precautions  and 
to  make  all  preparations  for  repeating  at  will  the  experi- 
ments already  made  and  others  which  I  had  in  mind. 
I  set  to  work  at  once,  without  delay. 
In  the  summer  I  began  to  buy  caterpillars  at  a  half- 
penny apiece. 
The  market  was  in  the  hands  of  some  neighbouring 
urchins,  my  habitual  providers.  On  Friday,  free  of  the 
terrors  of  grammar,  they  scoured  the  fields,  finding  from 
time  to  time  the  Great  Peacock  caterpillar,  and  bringing 
it  to  me  clinging  to  the  end  of  a  stick.  They  did  not 
dare  to  touch  it,  poor  little  imps  !  They  were  thunder- 
struck at  my  audacity  when  I  seized  it  in  my  fingers  as 
they  would  the  familiar  silkworm. 
Reared  upon  twigs  of  the  almond-tree,  my  menagerie 
soon  provided  me  with  magnificent  cocoons.  In  winter 
assiduous  search  at  the  base  of  the  native  trees  completed 
my  collection.  Friends  interested  in  my  researches  came 
to  my  aid.  Finally,  after  some  trouble,  what  with  an 
open  market,  commercial  negotiations,  and  searching,  at 
the  cost  of  many  scratches,  in  the  undergrowth,  I  became 
the  owner  of  an  assortment  of  cocoons  of  which  twelve, 
larger  and  heavier  than  the  rest,  announced  that  they 
were  those  of  females. 
Disappointment  awaited  me.  May  arrived  ;  a  capri- 
cious month  which  set  my  preparations  at  naught, 
troublesome  as  these  had  been.  Winter  returned.  The 
mistral  shrieked,  tore  the  budding  leaves  of  the  plane- 
trees,  and  scattered  them  over  the  ground.     It  was  cold 
192     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
as  December.  We  had  to  light  fires  in  the  evening,  and 
resume  the  heavy  clothes  we  had  begun  to  leave  off. 
My  butterflies  were  too  sorely  tried.  They  emerged 
late  and  were  torpid.  Around  my  cages,  in  which  the 
females  waited — to-day  one,  to-morrow  another,  according 
to  the  order  of  their  birth — few  males  or  none  came  from 
without.  Yet  there  were  some  in  the  neighbourhood, 
for  those  with  large  antennae  which  issued  from  my 
collection  of  cocoons  were  placed  in  the  garden  directly 
they  had  emerged,  and  were  recognised.  Whether 
neighbours  or  strangers,  very  few  came,  and  those  with- 
out enthusiasm.  For  a  moment  they  entered,  then 
disappeared  and  did  not  reappear.  The  lovers  were 
as  cold  as  the  season. 
Perhaps,  too,  the  low  temperature  was  unfavourable  to 
the  informing  effluvia,  which  might  well  be  increased  by 
heat  and  lessened  by  cold  as  is  the  case  with  many  odours. 
My  year  was  lost.  Research  is  disappointing  work  when 
the  experimenter  is  the  slave  of  the  return  and  the  caprices 
of  a  brief  season  of  the  year. 
For  the  third  time  I  began  again.  I  reared  caterpillars  ; 
I  scoured  the  country  in  search  of  cocoons.  When  May 
returned  I  was  tolerably  provided.  The  season  was  fine, 
responding  to  my  hopes.  I  foresaw  the  affluence  of 
butterflies  which  had  so  impressed  me  at  the  outset,  when 
the  famous  invasion  occurred  which  was  the  origin  of 
my  experiments. 
Every  night,  by  squadrons  of  twelve,  twenty,  or  more, 
the  visitors  appeared.  The  female,  a  strapping,  big- 
bellied  matron,  clung  to  the  woven  wire  of  the  cover. 
There  was  no  movement  on  her  part ;  not  even  a  flutter 
oi  the  wings.     One  would  have  thought  her  indifferent 
THE  GREAT  PEACOCK  193 
to  all  that  occurred.  No  odour  was  emitted  that  was 
perceptible  to  the  most  sensitive  nostrils  of  the  house- 
hold ;  no  sound  that  the  keenest  ears  of  the  household 
could  perceive.     Motionless,  recollected,  she  waited. 
The  males,  by  twos,  by  threes  and  more,  fluttered  upon 
the  dome  of  the  cover,  scouring  over  it  quickly  in  all 
directions,  beating,  it  continually  with  the  ends  of  theii 
wings.  There  were  no  conflicts  between  rivals.  Each 
did  his  best  to  penetrate  the  enclosure,  without  betraying 
any  sign  of  jealousy  of  the  others.  Tiring  of  their  fruitless 
attempts,  they  would  fly  away  and  join  the  dance  of  the 
gyrating  crowd.  Some,  in  despair,  would  escape  by  the 
open  window  :  new-comers  would  replace  them  :  and 
until  ten  o'clock  or  thereabouts  the  wire  dome  of  the 
cover  would  be  the  scene  of  continual  attempts  at 
approach,  incessantly  commencing,  quickly  wearying, 
quickly  resumed. 
Every  night  the  position  of  the  cage  was  changed. 
I  placed  it  north  of  the  house  and  south ;  on  the 
ground-floor  and  the  first  floor  ;  in  the  right  wing  of 
the  house,  or  fifty  yards  away  in  the  left  wing;  in  the 
open  air,  or  hidden  in  some  distant  room.  All  these 
sudden  removals,  devised  to  put  the  seekers  off  the 
scent,  troubled  them  not  at  all.  My  time  and  my  pains 
were  wasted,  so  far  as  deceiving  them  was  concerned. 
The  memory  of  places  has  no  part  in  the  finding  of 
the  female.  For  instance,  the  day  before  the  cage  was 
installed  in  a  certain  room.  The  males  visited  the  room 
and  fluttered  about  the  cage  for  a  couple  of  hours,  and 
some  even  passed  the  night  there.  On  the  following 
day,  at  sunset,  when  I  moved  the  cage,  all  were  out  of 
doors.      Although    their    lives    are    so    ephemeral,    the 
14 
194     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
youngest  were  ready  to  resume  their  nocturnal  ex- 
peditions a  second  and  even  a  third  time.  Where  did 
they  first  go,  these  veterans  of  a  day  ? 
They  knew  precisely  where  the  cage  had  been  the 
night  before.  One  would  have  expected  them  to  return 
to  it,  guided  by  memory  ;  and  that  not  finding  it  they 
would  go  out  to  continue  their  search  elsewhere.  No; 
contrary  to  my  expectation,  nothing  of  the  kind  appeared. 
None  came  to  the  spot  which  had  been  so  crowded  the 
night  before ;  none  paid  even  a  passing  visit.  The 
room  was  recognised  as  an  empty  room,  with  no  previous 
examination,  such  as  would  apparently  be  necessary  to 
contradict  the  memory  of  the  place.  A  more  positive 
guide  than  memory  called  them  elsewhere. 
Hitherto  the  female  was  always  visible,  behind  the 
meshes  of  the  wire-gauze  cover.  The  visitors,  seeing 
plainly  in  the  dark  night,  must  have  been  able  to  see 
her  by  the  vague  luminosity  of  what  for  us  is  the  dark. 
What  would  happen  if  I  imprisoned  her  in  an  opaque 
receptacle  ?  Would  not  such  a  receptacle  arrest  or 
set  free  the  informing  effluvia  according  to  its  nature  ? 
Practical  physics  has  given  us  wireless  telegraphy  by 
means  of  the  Hertzian  vibrations  of  the  ether.  Had  the 
Great  Peacock  butterfly  outstripped  and  anticipated 
mankind  in  this  direction  ?  In  order  to  disturb  the 
whole  surrounding  neighbourhood,  to  warn  pretenders  at 
a  distance  of  a  mile  or  more,  does  the  newly  emerged 
female  make  use  of  electric  or  magnetic  waves,  known  or 
unknown,  that  a  screen  of  one  material  would  arrest 
while  another  would  allow  them  to  pass  ?  In  a  word, 
does  she,  after  her  fashion,  employ  a  system  of  wireless 
telegraphy  ?  I  see  nothing  impossible  in  this ;  insects 
;M*e  responsible  for  many  inventions  equally  marvellous. 
THE   GREAT  PEACOCK  195 
Accordingly  I  lodged  the  female  in  boxes  of  various 
materials ;  boxes  of  tin-plate,  wood,  and  cardboard.  All 
were  hermetically  closed,  even  sealed  with  a  greasy  paste. 
I  also  used  a  glass  bell  resting  upon  a  base-plate  of  glass. 
Under  these  conditions  not  a  male  arrived  ;  not  one, 
though  the  warmth  and  quiet  of  the  evening  were 
propitious.  Whatever  its  nature,  whether  of  glass, 
metal,  card,  or  wood,  the  closed  receptacle  was  evidently 
an  insuperable  obstacle  to  the  warning  effluvia. 
A  layer  of  cotton-wool  two  fingers  in  thickness  had  the 
same  result.  I  placed  the  female  in  a  large  glass  jar,  and 
laced  apiece  of  thin  cotton  batting  over  the  mouth  for  a 
cover ;  this  again  guarded  the  secret  of  my  laboratory. 
Not  a  male  appeared. 
But  when  I  placed  the  females  in  boxes  which  were 
imperfectly  closed,  or  which  had  chinks  in  their  sides,  or 
even  hid  them  in  a  drawer  or  a  cupboard,  I  found  the 
males  arrived  in  numbers  as  great  as  when  the  object  of 
their  search  lay  in  the  cage  of  open  wire-work  freely 
exposed  on  a  table.  I  have  a  vivid  memory  of  one 
evening  when  the  recluse  was  hidden  in  a  hat-box  at 
the  bottom  of  a  wall-cupboard.  The  arrivals  went 
straight  to  the  closed  doors,  and  beat  them  with  their 
wings,  toc-toc,  trying  to  enter.  Wandering  pilgrims, 
come  from  I  know  not  where,  across  fields  and 
meadows,  they  knew  perfectly  what  was  behind  the 
doors  of  the  cupboard. 
So  we  must  abandon  the  idea  that  the  butterfly  has 
any  means  of  communication  comparable  to  our  wire- 
less telegraphy,  as  any  kind  of  screen,  whether  a  good  oi 
a  bad  conductor,  completely  stops  the  signals  of  the 
female.    To  give  them  free  passage  and  allow  them  to 
196     SOCIAL  LITE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
penetrate  to  a  distance  one  condition  is  indispensable  : 
the  enclosure  in  which  the  captive  is  confined  must  not 
be  hermetically  sealed  ;  there  must  be  a  communication 
between  it  and  the  outer  air.  This  again  points  to 
the  probability  of  an  odour,  although  this  is  contradicted 
by  my  experiment  with  the  naphthaline. 
My  cocoons  were  all  hatched,  and  the  problem  was 
still  obscure.  Should  I  begin  all  over  again  in  the  fourth 
year  ?  I  did  not  do  so,  for  the  reason  that  it  is  difficult 
to  observe  a  nocturnal  butterfly  if  one  wishes  to  follow  it 
in  all  its  intimate  actions.  The  lover  needs  no  light  to 
attain  his  ends ;  but  my  imperfect  human  vision  cannot 
penetrate  the  darkness.  I  should  require  a  candle  at 
least,  and  a  candle  would  be  constantly  extinguished  by 
the  revolving  swarm.  A  lantern  would  obviate  these 
eclipses,  but  its  doubtful  light,  interspersed  with  heavy 
shadows,  by  no  means  commends  it  to  the  scruples  of 
an  observer,  who  must  see,  and  see  well. 
Moreover,  the  light  of  a  lamp  diverts  the  butterflies 
from  their  object,  distracts  them  from  their  affairs,  and 
seriously  compromises  the  success  of  the  observer.  The 
moment  they  enter,  they  rush  frantically  at  the  flame, 
singe  their  down,  and  thereupon,  terrified  by  the  heat, 
are  of  no  profit  to  the  observer.  If,  instead  of  being 
roasted,  they  are  held  at  a  distance  by  an  envelope  of 
glass,  they  press  as  closely  as  they  can  to  the  flame,  and 
remain  motionless,  hypnotised. 
One  night,  the  female  being  in  the  dining-room,  on  the 
table,  facing  the  open  window,  a  petroleum  lamp, 
furnished  with  a  large  reflector  in  opaline  glass,  was 
hanging  from  the  ceiling.  The  arrivals  alighted  on  the 
dome  of  the  wire-gauze  cover,  crowding  eagerly  about 
THK    CKKAT    TKALDL  K    MOlil.       THK    I'll.C.KIMS    UIVHRTKD    BY    THK 
1  K.HT    (iK    A    I. AMI'. 
THE  GREAT  PEACOCK  197 
the  prisoner ;  others,  saluting  her  in  passing,  flew  to  the 
lamp,  circled  round  it  a  few  times,  and  then,  fascinated 
by  the  luminous  splendour  radiating  from  the  opal  cone 
of  light,  clung  there  motionless  under  the  reflector. 
Already  the  children  were  raising  their  hands  to  seize 
them.  "  Leave  them,"  I  said,  "  leave  them.  Let  us  be 
hospitable  :  do  not  disturb  the  pilgrims  who  have  come 
to  the  tabernacle  of  the  light." 
During  the  whole  evening  not  one  of  them  moved. 
Next  day  they  were  still  there.  The  intoxication  of  the 
light  had  made  them  forget  the  intoxication  of  love. 
With  creatures  so  madly  in  love  with  the  light  precise 
and  prolonged  experimentation  is  impracticable  the 
moment  the  observer  requires  artificial  light.  I  re- 
nounced the  Great  Peacock  and  its  nocturnal  habits. 
I  required  a  butterfly  with  diff^erent  habits ;  equally 
notable  as  a  lover,  but  seeking  out  the  beloved  by  day. 
Before  going  on  to  speak  of  my  experiments  with  a 
subject  fulfilling  these  conditions,  let  me  break  the 
chronological  order  of  my  record  in  order  to  say  a  few 
words  concerning  another  insect,  which  appeared  after 
I  had  completed  these  inquiries.  I  refer  to  the  Lesser 
Peacock  {Attacus  pavonta  minor,  Lin.). 
Some  one  brought  me,  from  what  locality  I  do  not 
know,  a  superb  cocoon  enveloped  in  an  ample  wrapping 
of  white  silk.  From  this  covering,  which  lay  in  large 
irregular  folds,  the  chrysalis  was  easily  detached ;  in 
shape  like  that  of  the  Great  Peacock,  but  considerably 
less  in  size.  The  anterior  extremity,  which  is  defended 
by  an  arrangement  of  fine  twigs,  converging,  and  free 
at  the  converging  ends,  forming  a  device  not  unlike  an 
eel-pot,   which   prevents   access    to   the   chrysalis   while 
198     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
allowing  the  butterfly  to  emerge  without  breaking  the 
defence,  indicated  a  relative  of  the  great  nocturnal 
butterfly  ;  the  silk-work  denoted  a  spinning  caterpillar. 
Towards  the  end  of  March  this  curious  cocoon  yielded 
up  a  female  of  the  Lesser  Peacock,  which  was  imme- 
diately sequestered  under  a  wire-gauze  cover  in  my  study. 
I  opened  the  window  to  allow  news  of  the  event  to  reach 
the  surrounding  country,  and  left  it  open  so  that  such 
visitors  as  presented  themselves  should  find  free  access 
to  the  cage.  The  captive  clung  to  the  wire  gauze  and 
did  not  move  for  a  week. 
She  was  a  superb  creature,  this  prisoner  of  mine,  with 
her  suit  of  brown  velvet,  crossed  by  undulating  lines. 
The  neck  was  surrounded  by  white  fur  ;  there  was  a 
carmine  spot  at  the  extremity  of  the  upper  wings,  and 
four  great  eyes  in  which  were  grouped,  in  concentric 
crescents,  black,  white,  red,  and  yellow  ochre  :  almost 
the  colouring  of  the  Great  Peacock,  but  more  vivid. 
Three  or  four  times  in  my  life  I  had  encountered  this 
butterfly,  so  remarkable  for  its  size  and  its  costume. 
The  cocoon  I  had  recently  seen  for  the  first  time ;  the 
male  I  had  never  seen.  I  only  knew  that,  according 
to  the  books,  it  was  half  the  size  of  the  female,  and  less 
vividly  coloured,  with  orange-yellow  on  the  lower 
wings. 
Would  he  appear,  the  elegant  unknown,  with  waving 
plumes  ;  the  butterfly  I  had  never  yet  seen,  so  rare  does 
the  Lesser  Peacock  seem  to  be  in  our  country  ?  Would 
he,  in  some  distant  hedge,  receive  warning  of  the  bride 
who  waited  on  my  study  table  ?  I  dared  to  hope  it, 
and  I  was  right.  He  arrived  even  sooner  than  I  had 
hoped. 
THE  GREAT  PEACOCK  109 
Noon  struck  as  we  were  sitting  down  to  table,  when 
little  Paul,  delayed  by  his  absorption  in  the  expected 
event,  suddenly  ran  to  rejoin  us,  his  cheeks  glowing. 
Between  his  fingers  we  saw  the  fluttering  wings  of  a 
handsome  butterfly,  caught  but  a  moment  before,  while 
it  was  hovering  in  front  of  my  study.  He  showed  it  me, 
questioning  me  with  his  eyes. 
"  Aha  ! "  I  cried,  "  this  is  precisely  the  pilgrim  we  are 
waiting  for.  Fold  your  napkin  and  come  and  see  what 
happens.     We  will  dine  later." 
Dinner  was  forgotten  before  the  marvels  that  came 
to  pass.  With  inconceivable  punctuality  the  butterflies 
hastened  to  meet  the  magical  call  of  the  captive.  With 
tortuous  flight  they  arrived  one  by  one.  All  came  from 
the  north.  This  detail  is  significant.  A  week  earlier 
there  had  been  a  savage  return  of  the  winter.  The  bise 
blew  tempestuously,  killing  the  early  almond  blossom. 
It  was  one  of  those  ferocious  storms  which  in  the  South 
commonly  serve  as  a  prelude  to  the  spring.  But  the 
temperature  had  now  suddenly  softened,  although  the 
wind  still  blew  from  the  north. 
Now  on  this  first  occasion  all  the  butterflies  hastening 
to  the  prisoner  entered  the  garden  from  the  north.  They 
followed  the  direction  of  the  wind  ;  not  one  flew  against 
it.  If  their  guide  was  a  sense  of  smell  like  ours,  if  they 
were  guided  by  fragrant  atoms  suspended  in  the  air,  they 
should  have  arrived  in  the  opposite  direction.  Coming 
from  the  south,  we  might  believe  them  to  be  warned  by 
effluvia  carried  on  the  wind ;  coming  from  the  north 
in  time  of  mistral,  that  resistless  sweeper  of  earth  and  air, 
how  can  we  suppose  that  they  had  perceived,  at  a  remote 
distance,  what  we  will   call  an  odour  ?    The  idea  of  a 
200     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
flow  of  odoriferous  atoms  in  a  direction  contrary  to  that 
of  the  aerial  torrent  seems  to  me  inadmissible. 
For  two  hours,  under  a  radiant  sun,  the  visitors  came 
and  went  before  the  outer  wall  of  the  study.  Most  of 
them  sought  for  a  long  time,  exploring  the  wall,  flying 
on  a  level  with  the  ground.  To  see  them  thus  hesitating 
you  would  say  that  they  were  puzzled  to  find  the  exact 
position  of  the  lure  which  called  them.  Although  they 
had  come  from  such  a  distance  without  a  mistake, 
they  seemed  imperfectly  informed  once  they  were  on  the 
spot.  Nevertheless,  sooner  or  later  they  entered  the  room 
and  saluted  the  captive,  without  showing  any  great 
ardour.  At  two  o'clock  all  was  over.  Ten  butterflies 
had  arrived. 
During  the  whole  week,  and  always  about  noon,  at 
the  hour  of  the  brightest  sunlight,  the  butterflies  arrived, 
but  in  decreasing  numbers.  The  total  approached  forty. 
I  thought  it  useless  to  repeat  experiments  which  would 
add  nothing  to  what  I  had  already  learned.  I  will 
confine  myself  to  stating  two  facts.  In  the  first  place, 
the  Lesser  Peacock  is  diurnal  ;  that  is  to  say,  it  celebrates 
its  mating  under  the  dazzling  brilliance  of  noon.  It 
needs  the  full  force  of  the  sunlight.  The  Great  Peacock, 
on  the  contrary,  which  it  so  closely  resembles  both  in  its 
adult  form  and  the  work  of  its  caterpillar,  requires  the 
darkness  of  the  first  hours  of  the  night.  Who  can  explain 
this  strange  contrast  in  habits  ? 
In  the  second  place,  a  powerful  current  of  air,  sweeping 
away  in  a  contrary  direction  all  particles  that  might 
inform  the  sense  of  smell,  does  not  prevent  the  butterflies 
from  arriving  from  a  direction  opposite  to  that  taken 
by  the  eflluvial  stream,  as  we  understand  such  matters. 
THE  GREAT  PEACOCK  801 
To  continue :   I  needed  a  diurnal  moth  or  butterfly  ; 
.  not  the   Lesser  Peacock,  which  came  too  late,  when  I 
had  nothing  to  ask  of  it,  but  another,  no  matter  what, 
provided  it  was  a  prompt  guest  at  the  wedding   feast. 
Was  I  to  find  such  an  insect  ? 