CHAPTER   XX 
THE   GREY   LOCUST 
I  HAVE  just  witnessed  a  moving  spectacle  :  the  last  moult 
of  a  locust ;  the  emergence  of  the  adult  from  its  larval 
envelope.  It  was  magnificent.  I  am  speaking  of  the 
Grey  Locust,  the  colossus  among  our  acridians,*  which 
is  often  seen  among  the  vines  in  September  when  the 
grapes  are  gathered.  By  its  size — and  it  grows  as  long 
as  a  man's  finger — it  lends  itself  to  observation  better 
than  any  other  of  its  tribe. 
The  larva,  disgustingly  fat,  like  a  rude  sketch  of  the 
perfect  insect,  is  commonly  of  a  tender  green  ;  but  it  is 
sometimes  of  a  bluish  green,  a  dirty  yellow,  or  a  ruddy 
brown,  or  even  an  ashen  grey,  like  the  grey  of  the  adult 
cricket.  The  corselet  is  strongly  keeled  and  indented, 
and  is  sprinkled  with  fine  white  spots.  As  powerful  as 
in  the  adult  insect,  the  hind-leg  has  a  corpulent  haunch, 
streaked  with  red,  and  a  long  shin  like  a  two-edged  saw. 
The   elytra,   which    in    a    few    days   will    extend   far 
beyond  the  tip  of  the  abdomen,  are  at  present  too  small 
triangular   wing-like   appendages,   touching    along  their 
upper  edges,  and  continuing  and  emphasising  the  keel 
or  ridge  of  the  corselet.    Their  free  ends  stick  up  like 
the  gable  of  a  house.    They  remind  one  of  the  skirts 
•  The  American  usage  is  to  call  acridians  grasshoppers  and 
Locustidae  locusts.  The  English  usage  is  to  call  Locustidae  grass- 
hoppers and  acridians  locusts.    The  Biblical  locust  is  an  acridian. 
900 
THE   GREY  LOCUST  301 
of  a  coat,  the  maker  of  which  has  been  ludicrously  stingy 
with  the  cloth,  as  they  merely  cover  the  creature's  naked- 
ness at  the  small  of  the  back.  Underneath  there  are  two 
narrow  appendages,  the  germs  of  the  wings,  which  are 
even  smaller  than  the  elytra.  The  sumptuous,  elegant 
sails  of  to-morrow  are  now  mere  rags,  so  miserly  in  their 
dimensions  as  to  be  absolutely  grotesque.  What  will 
emerge  from  these  miserable  coverings  ?  A  miracle  of 
grace  and  amplitude. 
Let  us  observe  the  whole  process  in  detail.  Feeling 
itself  ripe  for  transformation,  the  insect  climbs  up  the 
wire-gauze  cover  by  means  of  its  hinder  and  inter- 
mediate limbs.  The  fore-limbs  are  folded  and  crossed 
on  the  breast,  and  are  not  employed  in  supporting  the 
insect,  which  hangs  in  a  reversed  position,  the  back 
downwards.  The  triangular  winglets,  the  sheaths  of  the 
elytra,  open  along  their  line  of  juncture  and  separate 
laterally ;  the  two  narrow  blades,  which  contain  the 
wings,  rise  in  the  centre  of  the  interval  and  slightly 
diverge.  The  proper  position  for  the  process  of  moult- 
ing has  now  been  assumed  and  the  proper  stability 
assured. 
The  first  thing  to  do  is  to  burst  the  old  skin.  Behind 
the  corselet,  under  the  pointed  roof  of  the  prothorax,  a 
series  of  pulsations  is  produced  by  alternate  inflation  and 
deflation.  A  similar  state  of  affairs  is  visible  in  front  of 
the  neck,  and  probably  under  the  entire  surface  of  the 
yielding  carapace.  The  fineness  of  the  membrane  at 
the  articulations  enables  us  to  perceive  it  at  these  un- 
armoured  points,  but  the  cuirass  of  the  corselet  conceals 
it  in  the  central  portion. 
At  these  points  the  circulatory  reserves  of  the  insect 
302     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
are  pulsing  in  tidal  onsets.  Their  gradual  increase  is 
betrayed  by  pulsations  like  those  of  a  hydraulic  ram. 
Distended  by  this  rush  of  humours,  by  this  injection 
in  which  the  organism  concentrates  all  its  forces,  the 
outer  skin  finally  splits  along  the  line  of  least  resistance 
which  the  subtle  previsions  of  life  have  prepared.  The 
fissure  extends  the  whole  length  of  the  corselet,  opening 
precisely  along  the  ridge  of  the  keel,  as  though  the  two 
symmetrical  halves  had  been  soldered  together.  Un- 
breakable elsewhere,  the  envelope  has  yielded  at  this 
median  point,  which  had  remained  weaker  than  the  rest 
of  the  sheath.  The  fissure  runs  back  a  little  way  until 
it  reaches  a  point  between  the  attachments  of  the  wings  ; 
on  the  head  it  runs  forward  as  far  as  the  base  of  the 
antennae,  when  it  sends  a  short  ramification  right  and 
left. 
Through  this  breach  the  back  is  seen  ;  quite  soft,  and 
very  pale,  with  scarcely  a  tinge  of  grey.  Slowly  it  curves 
upwards  and  becomes  more  and  more  strongly  hunched  ; 
at  last  it  is  free. 
The  head  follows,  withdrawing  itself  from  its  mask, 
which  remains  in  place,  intact  in  the  smallest  detail,  but 
looking  very  strange  with  its  great  unseeing  glassy  eyes. 
The  sheaths  of  the  antennae,  without  a  wrinkle,  without 
the  least  derangement,  and  in  their  natural  place,  hang 
over  this  dead,  translucid  face. 
In  emerging  from  their  narrow  sheaths,  which  clasped 
them  so  tightly  and  precisely,  the  thread-like  antennae 
have  evidently  met  with  no  resistance,  or  the  sheaths 
would  have  been  turned  inside  out,  or  crumpled  out 
of  shape,  or  wrinkled  at  least.  Without  harming  the 
jointed  or  knotted  covers,  the  contents,  of  equal  volume 
THE   GREY  LOCUST  303 
and  equally  knotty,  have  slipped  out  as  easily  as  though 
they  were  smooth,  slippery  objects  sliding  out  of  a 
loose  sheath.  The  method  of  extraction  is  still  more 
istonishing  in  the  case  of  the  hind-legs. 
It  is  now,  however,  the  turn  of  the  front  and  inter- 
mediate pairs  of  legs.  They  pull  out  of  their  gauntlets 
and  leggings  without  the  least  hitch ;  nothing  is  torn, 
nothing  buckled  ;  the  outer  skin  is  not  even  crumpled, 
and  all  the  tissues  rem.iin  in  their  natural  position.  The 
insect  is  now  hanging  from  the  dome  of  the  cover  solely 
by  the  claws  of  the  long  hind-legs.  It  hangs  in  an 
almost  vertical  position,  the  head  downwards,  swinging 
like  a  pendulum  if  I  touch  the  cover.  Four  tiny,  steely 
claws  are  its  only  support.  If  they  gave  or  unclasped 
themselves  the  insect  would  be  lost,  as  it  is  as  yet  unable 
to  unfurl  its  enormous  wings  ;  but  even  had  the  wings 
emerged  they  could  not  grip  the  air  in  time  to  save  the 
creature  from  the  consequences  of  a  fall.  But  the  four 
claws  hold  fast ;  life,  before  withdrawing  from  them,  left 
them  rigidly  contracted,  so  that  they  should  support 
without  yielding  the  struggles  and  withdrawals  to  follow. 
Now  the  wing-covers  and  wings  emerge.  These  are 
four  narrow  strips,  vaguely  seamed  and  furrowed,  like 
strings  of  rolled  tissue-paper.  They  are  barely  a  quarter 
of  their  final  length. 
They  are  so  soft  that  they  bend  under  their  own 
weight,  and  hang  down  the  creature's  sides  in  the 
reverse  of  their  normal  position.  The  free  extremities, 
which  normally  point  backwards,  are  now  pointing 
towards  the  cricket's  head  as  it  hangs  reversed.  The 
organs  of  future  flight  are  like  four  leaves  of  withered 
foliage  shattered  by  a  terrific  rainstorm. 
304     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
A  profound  transformation  is  necessary  to  bring  the 
wings  to  their  final  perfection.  The  inner  changes  are 
already  at  work ;  liquids  are  solidifying ;  albuminous 
secretions  are  bringing  order  out  of  chaos  ;  but  so  far 
no  outward  sign  betrays  what  is  happening  in  the  mys- 
terious laboratory  of  the  organism.  All  seems  inert  and 
lifeless. 
In  the  meantime  the  posterior  limbs  disengage  them- 
selves. The  great  haunches  become  visible,  streaked  on 
the  inner  faces  with  a  pale  rose,  which  rapidly  turns  to  a 
vivid  crimson.  Emergence  is  easy,  the  thick  and  muscu- 
lar upper  portion  of  the  haunch  preparing  the  way  for 
the  narrower  part  of  the  limb. 
It  is  otherwise  with  the  shank.  This,  in  the  adult 
insect,  is  armed  along  its  whole  length  by  a  double 
series  of  stiff,  steely  spines.  Moreover,  the  lower  ex- 
tremity is  terminated  by  four  strong  spurs.  The  shank 
forms  a  veritable  saw,  but  with  two  parallel  sets  of  teeth  ; 
and  it  is  so  strongly  made  that  it  may  well  be  compared, 
the  question  of  size  apart,  to  the  great  saw  of  a  quarry- 
man. 
The  shank  of  the  larva  has  the  same  structure,  so  that 
the  object  to  be  extracted  is  enclosed  in  a  scabbard  as 
awkwardly  shaped  as  itself.  Each  spur  is  enclosed  in  a 
similar  spur ;  each  tooth  engages  in  the  hollow  of  a 
similar  tooth,  and  the  sheath  is  so  closely  moulded  upon 
the  shank  that  a  no  more  intimate  contact  could  be 
obtained  by  replacing  the  envelope  by  a  layer  of  varnish 
applied  with  a  brush. 
Nevertheless  the  tibia,  long  and  narrow  as  it  is,  issues 
from  its  sheath  without  catching  or  sticking  anywhere. 
If  I  had  not  repeatedly  seen  the  operation  I  could  not 
THE   GREY  LOCUST 
believe  it  possible  ;  for  the  discarded  sheath  is  absolutely 
intact  from  end  to  end.  Neither  the  terminal  spurs  nor 
the  double  rows  of  spines  do  the  slightest  damage  to  the 
delicate  mould.  The  long-toothed  saw  leaves  the  delicate 
sheath  unbroken,  although  a  puff  of  the  breath  is  enough 
to  tear  it ;  the  ferocious  spurs  slip  out  of  it  without 
leaving  so  much  as  a  scratch. 
I  was  far  from  expectmg  such  a  result.  Having  the 
spiny  weapons  of  the  legs  in  mind,  I  imagined  that 
those  limbs  would  moult  in  scales  and  patches,  or  that 
the  sheathing  would  rub  off  like  a  dead  scarf-skin.  How 
completely  the  reality  surpassed  my  anticipations  1 
From  the  spurs  and  spines  of  the  sheath,  which  is  as 
thin  as  the  finest  gold-beaters'  skin,  the  spurs  and  spines 
of  the  leg,  which  make  it  a  most  formidable  weapon, 
capable  of  cutting  a  piece  of  soft  wood,  emerge  without 
the  slightest  display  of  violence,  without  a  hitch  of  any 
kind  ;  and  the  empty  skin  remains  in  place.  Still  clinging 
by  its  claws  to  the  top  of  the  wire  cover,  it  is  untorn, 
unwrinkled,  uncreased.  Even  the  magnifying-glass  fails 
to  show  a  trace  of  rough  usage.  Such  as  the  skin  was 
before  the  cricket  left  it,  so  it  is  now.  The  legging  of 
dead  skin  remains  in  its  smallest  details  the  exact  replica 
of  the  living  limb. 
If  any  one  asked  you  to  extract  a  saw  from  a  scabbard 
exactly  moulded  upon  the  steel,  and  to  conduct  the 
operation  without  the  slightest  degree  of  tearing  or 
scratching,  you  would  laugh  at  the  flagrant  impossi- 
bility of  the  task.  But  life  makes  light  of  such 
absurdities  ;  it  has  its  methods  of  performing  the  im- 
possible when  such  methods  are  required.  The  leg  of 
the  locust  affords  us  such  an  instance. 
21 
306     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
Hard  as  it  is  when  once  free  of  its  sheath,  the  serrated 
tibia  would  absolutely  refuse  to  leave  the  latter,  so  closely 
does  it  fit,  unless  it  were  torn  to  pieces.  Yet  the  difficulty 
must  be  evaded,  for  it  is  indispensable  that  the  sheaths 
of  the  legs  should  remain  intact,  in  order  to  afford  a  firm 
support  until  the  insect  is  completely  extricated. 
The  leg  in  process  of  liberation  is  not  the  leg  with 
which  the  locust  makes  its  leaps ;  it  has  not  as  yet 
the  rigidity  which  it  will  soon  acquire.  It  is  soft,  and 
eminently  flexible.  In  those  portions  which  the  progress 
of  the  moult  exposes  to  view  I  see  the  legs  bend  under 
the  mere  weight  of  the  suspended  insect  when  I  tilt  the 
supporting  cover.  They  are  as  flexible  as  two  strips  of 
elastic  indiarubber.  Yet  even  now  consolidation  is 
progressing,  for  in  a  few  minutes  the  proper  rigidity 
will  be  acquired. 
Further  along  the  limbs,  in  the  portions  which  the 
sheathing  still  conceals,  the  legs  are  certainly  softer  still, 
and  in  the  state  of  exquisite  plasticity — I  had  almost 
said  fluidity — which  allows  them  to  pass  through  narrow 
passages  almost  as  a  liquid  flows. 
The  teeth  of  the  saws  are  already  there,  but  have 
nothing  of  their  imminent  rigidity.  With  the  point  of 
a  pen-knife  I  can  partially  uncover  a  leg  and  extract 
the  spines  from  their  serrated  mould.  They  are  germs 
of  spines  ;  flexible  buds  which  bend  under  the  slightest 
pressure  and  resume  their  position  the  moment  the  pres- 
sure is  removed. 
These  needles  pomt  backwards  as  the  leg  is  drawn  out 
of  the  sheath  ;  but  they  re-erect  themselves  and  solidify 
as  they  emerge.  I  am  witnessing  not  the  mere  removal 
of  leggings  from  limbs  already  clad  in  finished  armour, 
THE  GREY  LOCUST  30? 
but    a    kind    of    creation    which    amazes    one     by    its 
promptitude. 
Very  much  in  the  same  way,  but  with  far  less  delicate 
precision,  the  claws  of  the  crayfish,  at  the  period  of  the 
moult,  withdraw  the  soft  flesh  of  their  double  fingers 
from  their  stony  sheath. 
Finally  the  long  stilt-like  legs  are  free.  They  are 
folded  gently  against  the  furrowed  thighs,  thus  to 
mature  undisturbed.  The  abdomen  begins  to  emerge. 
Its  fine  tunic-like  covering  splits,  and  wrinkles,  but  still 
encloses  the  extremity  of  the  abdomen,  which  adheres  to 
the  moulted  skin  for  some  little  time  longer.  With  the 
exception  of  this  one  point  the  entire  insect  is  now 
uncovered. 
It  hangs  head  downwards,  like  a  pendulum,  supported 
by  the  talons  of  the  now  empty  leg-cases.  During  the 
whole  of  the  lengthy  and  meticulous  process  the  four 
talons  have  never  yielded.  The  whole  operation  has 
been  conducted  with  the  utmost  delicacy  and  prudence 
The  insect  hangs  motionless,  held  by  the  tip  of  the 
abdomen.  The  abdomen  is  disproportionately  dis- 
tended ;  swollen,  apparently,  by  the  reserve  of  organis- 
able  humours  which  the  expansion  of  the  wings  and 
wing-covers  will  presently  employ.  Meanwhile  the 
creature  rests  and  recovers  from  its  exertions.  Twenty 
minutes  of   waiting  elapse. 
Then,  exerting  the  muscles  of  the  back,  the  suspended 
insect  raises  itself  and  fixes  the  talons  of  the  anterior 
limbs  in  the  empty  skin  above  it.  Never  did  acrobat, 
hanging  by  the  toes  to  the  bar  of  a  trapeze,  raise  himself 
with  so  stupendous  a  display  of  strength  in  the  loins. 
This  gymnastic  feat  accomplished^  the  rest  is  easy. 
308     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
With  the  purchase  thus  obtained  the  insect  rises  a 
little  and  reaches  the  wire  gauze,  the  equivalent  of  the 
twig  which  would  be  chosen  for  the  site  of  the  trans- 
formation in  the  open  fields.  It  holds  to  this  with  the 
four  anterior  limbs.  Then  the  tip  of  the  abdomen  is 
finally  liberated,  and  suddenly,  shaken  by  the  final 
struggle,  the  empty  skin  falls  to  the  ground. 
This  fall  is  interesting,  and  reminds  me  of  the  per- 
sistence with  which  the  empty  husk  of  the  Cigale  braves 
the  winds  of  winter,  without  falling  from  its  supporting 
twig.  The  transfiguration  of  the  locust  takes  place  very 
much  as  does  that  of  the  Cigale.  How  is  it  then  that  the 
acridian  trusts  to  a  hold  so  easily  broken  ? 
The  talons  of  the  skin  hold  firmly  so  long  as  the 
labour  of  escape  continues,  although  one  would  expect 
it  to  shake  the  firmest  grip  ;  yet  they  yield  at  the  slightest 
shock  when  the  labour  is  terminated.  There  is  evidently 
a  condition  of  highly  unstable  equilibrium ;  showing 
once  more  with  what  delicate  precision  the  insect 
escapes  from  its  sheath. 
For  want  of  a  better  term  I  said  "escape."  But  the 
word  is  ill  chosen  ;  for  it  implies  a  certain  amount  of 
violence,  and  no  violence  must  be  employed,  on  account 
of  the  instability  of  equilibrium  already  mentioned. 
If  the  insect,  shaken  by  a  sudden  effort,  were  to  lose 
its  hold,  it  would  be  all  up  with  it.  It  would  slowly 
shrivel  on  the  spot  ;  or  at  best  its  wings,  unable  to 
expand,  would  remain  as  miserable  scraps  of  tissue.  The 
locust  does  not  tear  itself  away  from  its  sheath ;  it 
delicately  insinuates  itself  out  of  it — I  had  almost  said 
flows.  It  is  as  though  it  were  expelled  by  a  gentle 
pressure 
THE   GREY  LOCUST  309 
Let  us  return  to  the  wings  and  elytra,  which  have 
made  no  apparent  progress  sinc«  their  emergence  from 
their  sheaths.  They  are  still  mere  stumps,  with  fine 
longitudinal  seams  ;  almost  like  little  ropes'-ends.  Their 
expansion,  which  will  occupy  more  than  three  hours,  is 
reserved  for  the  end,  when  the  insect  is  completely 
moulted  and  in  its  normal  position. 
We  have  just  seen  the  insect  turn  head  uppermost. 
This  reversal  causes  the  wings  and  elytra  to  fall  into 
their  natural  position.  Extremely  flexible,  and  yielding 
to  their  own  weight,  they  had  previously  drooped  back- 
wards with  their  free  extremities  pointing  towards  the 
head  of  the  insect  as  it  hung  reversed. 
Now,  still  by  reason  of  their  own  weight,  their  position 
is  rectified  and  they  point  in  the  normal  direction.  They 
are  no  longer  curved  like  the  petals  of  a  flower ;  they  no 
longer  point  the  wrong  way  ;  but  they  retain  the  same 
miserable  aspect. 
In  its  perfect  state  the  wing  is  like  a  fan.  A  radiating 
bundle  of  strong  nervures  runs  through  it  in  the  direc- 
tion of  its  length  and  forms  the  framework  of  the  fan, 
which  is  readily  furled  and  unfurled.  The  intervals  are 
crossed  by  innumerable  cross-nervures  of  slighter  sub- 
stance, which  make  of  the  whole  a  network  of  rectangular 
meshes.  The  elytrum,  which  is  heavier  and  much  less 
extensive,  repeats  this  structure. 
At  present  nothing  of  this  mesh-work  is  visible. 
Nothing  can  be  seen  but  a  few  wrinkles,  a  few  flexuous 
iurrows,  which  announce  that  the  stumps  are  bundles 
of  tissue  cunningly  folded  and  reduced  to  the  smallest 
possible  volume. 
The  expansion  of  the  wing  begins  near  the  shoulder. 
310     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
Where  nothing  precise  could  be  distinguished  at  the 
outset  we  soon  perceive  a  diaphanous  surface  sub- 
divided into  meshes  of  beautiful  precision. 
Little  by  little,  with  a  deliberation  that  escapes  the 
magnifier,  this  area  increases  its  bounds,  at  the  expense 
of  the  shapeless  bundle  at  the  end  of  the  wing.  In  vain 
I  let  my  eyes  rest  on  the  spot  where  the  expanding  net- 
work meets  the  still  shapeless  bundle  ;  I  can  distinguish 
nothing.  But  wait  a  little,  and  the  fine-meshed  tissues 
will  appear  with  perfect  distinctness. 
To  judge  from  this  first  examination,  one  would  guess 
that  an  organisable  fluid  is  rapidly  congealing  into  a  net- 
work of  nervures ;  one  seems  to  be  watching  a  process  of 
crystallisation  comparable,  in  its  rapidity,  to  that  of  a 
saturated  saline  solution  as  seen  through  a  microscope. 
But  no  ;  this  is  not  what  is  actually  happening.  Life 
does  not  do  its  work  so  abruptly. 
I  detach  a  half-developed  wing  and  bring  it  under 
the  powerful  eye  of  the  microscope.  This  time  I  am 
satisfied  On  the  confines  of  the  transparent  network, 
where  an  extension  of  that  network  seems  to  be  gradually 
weaving  itself  out  of  nothing,  I  can  see  that  the  meshes 
are  really  already  in  existence.  I  can  plainly  recognise 
the  longitudinal  nervures,  which  are  already  stiff  ;  and  I 
can  also  see — pale,  and  without  relief — the  transverse 
nervures.  I  find  them  all  in  the  terminal  stump,  and 
am  able  to  spread  out  a  few  of  its  folds  under  the 
microscope. 
It  is  obvious  that  the  wing  is  not  a  tissue  in  the  process 
of  making,  through  which  the  procreative  energy  of  the 
vital  juices  is  shooting  its  shuttle ;  it  is  a  tissue  already 
complete.     To  be  perfect  it  lacks  only  expansion   and 
THE  GREY  LOCUST  311 
rigidity,  just  as  a  piece  of  lace  or  linen  needs  only  to  be 
ironed. 
In  three  hours  or  more  the  explanation  is  complete. 
The  wings  and  elytra  stand  erect  over  the  locust's  back 
like  an  immense  set  of  sails  ;  at  first  colourless,  then  of  a 
tender  green,  like  the  freshly  expanded  wings  of  the 
Cigale.  I  am  amazed  at  their  expanse  when  I  think  of 
the  miserable  stumps  from  which  they  have  expanded. 
How  did  so  much  material  contrive  to  occupy  so  little 
space  ? 
There  is  a  story  of  a  grain  of  hemp-seed  that  contained 
all  the  body-linen  of  a  princess.  Here  we  have  some- 
thing even  more  astonishing.  The  hemp-seed  of  the 
story  needed  long  years  to  germinate,  to  multiply,  and 
at  last  to  give  the  quantity  of  hemp  required  for  the 
trousseau  of  a  princess  ;  but  the  germ  of  the  locust's 
wing  has  expanded  to  a  magnificent  sail  in  a  few  short 
hours. 
Slowly  the  superb  erection  composed  of  the  four  flat 
fan-like  pinions  assumes  rigidity  and  colour.  By  to- 
morrow the  colour  will  have  attained  the  requisite  shade. 
For  the  first  time  the  wings  close  fan-wise  and  lie  down 
in  their  places  ;  the  elytra  bend  over  at  their  outer  edges, 
forming  a  flange  which  lies  snugly  over  the  flanks.  The 
transformation  is  complete.  Now  the  great  locust 
has  only  to  harden  its  tissues  a  little  longer  and  to  tan 
the  grey  of  its  costume  in  the  ecstasy  of  the  sunshine. 
Let  us  leave  it  to  its  happiness,  and  return  to  an  earlier 
moment. 
The  four  stumps  which  emerge  from  their  coverings 
shortly  after  the  rupture  of  the  corselet  along  its  median 
line  contain,  as  we  have  seen,  the  wings  and  elytra  with 
312     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
their  innumerable  nervures.  If  not  perfect,  at  least  the 
general  plan  is  complete,  with  all  its  innumerable  details. 
To  expand  these  miserable  bundles  and  convert  them 
into  an  ample  set  of  sails  it  is  enough  that  the  organism, 
acting  like  a  force-pump,  should  force  into  the  channels 
already  prepared  a  stream  of  humours  kept  in  reserve 
for  this  moment  and  this  purpose,  the  most  laborious  of 
the  whole  process.  As  the  capillary  channels  are  pre- 
pared in  advance  a  slight  injection  of  fluid  is  sufficient  to 
cause  expansion. 
But  what  were  these  four  bundles  of  tissue  while  still 
enclosed  in  their  sheaths  ?  Are  the  wing-sheaths  and  the 
triangular  winglets  of  the  larva  the  moulds  whose  folds, 
wrinkles,  and  sinuosities  form  their  contents  in  their  own 
image,  and  so  weave  the  network  of  the  future  wings  and 
wing-covers  ? 
Were  they  really  moulds  we  might  for  a  moment  be 
satisfied.  We  might  tell  ourselves :  It  is  quite  a  simple 
matter  that  the  thing  moulded  should  conform  to  the 
cavity  of  the  mould.  But  the  simplicity  is  only  apparent, 
for  the  mould  in  its  turn  must  somewhere  derive  the 
requisite  and  inextricable  complexity.  We  need  not  go 
so  far  back  ;  we  should  only  be  in  darkness.  Let  us  keep 
to  the  observable  facts. 
1  examine  with  a  magnifying-glass  one  of  the  triangular 
coat-tails  of  a  larva  on  the  point  of  transformation.  I 
see  a  bundle  of  moderately  strong  nervures  radiating 
fan-wise.  I  see  other  nervures  in  the  intervals,  pale  and 
very  fine.  Finally,  still  more  delicate,  and  running  trans- 
versely, a  number  of  very  short  nervures  complete  the 
pattern. 
Certainly  this  resembles  a  rough  sketch  of  the  future 
THE  GREY  LOCUST  313 
wing-case ;  but  how  different  from  the  mature  structure  ! 
The  disposition  of  the  radiating  nervures,  the  skeleton  of 
the  structure,  is  not  at  all  the  same ;  the  network  formed 
by  the  cross-nervures  gives  no  idea  whatever  of  the  com- 
plex final  arrangement.  The  rudimentary  is  succeeded 
by  the  infinitely  complex  ;  the  clumsy  by  the  infinitely 
perfect,  and  the  same  is  true  of  the  sheath  of  the 
wing  and  the  final  condition  of  its  contents,  the  perfect 
wing. 
It  is  perfectly  evident,  when  we  have  the  preparatory 
as  well  as  the  final  condition  of  the  wing  before  our  eyes, 
that  the  wing-sheath  of  the  larva  is  not  a  simple  mould 
which  elaborates  the  tissue  enclosed  in  its  own  image 
and  fashions  the  wing  after  the  complexities  of  its  own 
cavity. 
The  future  wing  is  not  contained  in  the  sheath  as  a 
bundle,  which  will  astonish  us,  when  expanded,  by  the 
extent  and  extreme  complication  of  its  surface.  Or,  to 
speak  more  exactly,  it  is  there,  but  in  a  potential  state. 
Before  becoming  an  actual  thing  it  is  a  virtual  thing 
which  is  not  yet,  but  is  capable  of  becoming.  It  is  there 
as  the  oak  is  inside  the  acorn. 
A  fine  transparent  cushion  limits  the  free  edge  of  the 
embryo  wing  and  the  embryo  wi  ig-case.  Under  a 
powerful  microscope  we  can  perceive  therein  a  few 
doubtful  lineaments  of  the  future  lace-work.  This  might 
well  be  the  factory  in  which  life  will  shortly  set  its 
materials  in  movement.  Nothing  more  is  visible ; 
nothing  that  will  make  us  foresee  the  prodigious  network 
in  which  each  mesh  must  have  its  form  and  place  pre- 
determined with  geometrical  exactitude. 
In  order  that  the  organisable  material  can  shape  itself 
314     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
as  a  sheet  of  gauze  and  describe  the  inextricable  labyrinth 
of  the  nervuration,  there  must  be  something  better  and 
more  wonderful  than  a  mould.  There  is  a  prototypical 
plan,  an  ideal  pattern,  which  imposes  a  precise  position 
upon  each  atom  of  the  tissue.  Before  the  material  com- 
mences to  circulate  the  configuration  is  already  virtually 
traced,  the  courses  of  the  plastic  currents  are  already 
mapped  out.  The  stones  of  our  buildings  co-ordinate 
according  to  the  considered  plan  of  the  architect ;  they 
form  an  ideal  assemblage  before  they  exist  as  a  concrete 
assemblage. 
Similarly,  the  wing  of  a  cricket,  that  wonderful  piece  of 
lace-work  emerging  from  a  tiny  sheath,  speaks  to  us  of 
another  Architect,  the  author  of  the  plans  according  to 
which  life  labours. 
The  genesis  of  living  creatures  offers  to  our  contempla- 
tion an  infinity  of  wonders  far  greater  than  this  matter  of 
a  locust's  wing  ;  but  in  general  they  pass  unperceived, 
obscured  as  they  are  by  the  veil  of  time. 
Time,  in  the  deliberation  of  mysteries,  deprives  us  of 
the  most  astonishing  of  spectacles  except  our  spirits  be 
endowed  with  a  tenacious  patience.  Here  by  exception 
the  fact  is  accomplished  with  a  swiftness  that  forces 
the  attention. 
Whosoever  would  gain,  without  wearisome  delays,  a 
glimpse  of  the  inconceivable  dexterity  with  which  the 
forces  of  life  can  labour,  has  only  to  consider  the  great 
locust  of  the  vineyard.  The  insect  will  show  him  that 
which  is  hidden  from  our  curiosity  by  extreme  delibera- 
tion in  the  germinating  seed,  the  opening  leaf,  and  the 
budding  flower.  We  cannot  see  the  grass  grow  ;  but  we 
can  watch  the  growth  of  the  locust's  wings. 
THE  GEBY  LOCUST  315 
Amazement  seizes  upon  us  before  this  sublime  phantas- 
magoria of  the  grain  of  hemp  which  in  a  few  hours  has 
been  transmuted  into  the  finest  cloth.  What  a  mighty 
artist  is  Life,  shooting  her  shuttle  to  weave  the  wings  of  the 
locust — one  of  those  insignificant  insects  of  whom  long 
ago  Pliny  said  :  In  his  tam  parcis,  fere  ntillis,  quae  vis, 
quae  sapientia,  quam  inextricahilis  perfectio  ! 
How  truly  was  the  old  naturalist  inspired !  Let  us 
repeat  with  him  :  "  What  power,  what  wisdom,  what 
inconceivable  perfection  in  this  least  of  secrets  that  the 
vineyard  locust  has  shown  us  ! " 
I  have  heard  that  a  learned  inquirer,  for  whom  life  is 
only  a  conflict  of  physical  and  chemical  forces,  does  not 
despair  of  one  day  obtaining  artificially  organisable 
matter — protoplasm,  as  the  official  jargon  has  it.  If  it 
were  in  my  power  I  should  hasten  to  satisfy  this 
ambitious  gentleman. 
But  so  be  it :  you  have  really  prepared  protoplasm. 
By  force  of  meditation,  profound  study,  minute  care, 
impregnable  patience,  your  desire  is  realised  :  you  have 
extracted  from  your  apparatus  an  albuminous  slime,  easily 
corruptible  and  stinking  like  the  devil  at  the  end  of  a  few 
days  :  in  short,  a  nastiness.  What  are  you  going  to  do 
with  it  ? 
Organise  something  ?  Will  you  give  it  the  structure  of 
a  living  edifice  ?  Will  you  inject  it  with  a  hypodermic 
syringe  between  two  impalpable  plates  to  obtain  were  it 
only  the  wing  of  a  fly  ? 
That  is  very  much  what  the  locust  does.  It  injects  its 
protoplasm  between  the  two  surfaces  of  an  embryo  organ, 
and  the  material  forms  a  wing-cover,  because  it  finds  as 
guide  the  ideal  archetype  of  which  I  spoke  but  now.     It 
316     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE  INSECT  WORLD 
is  controlled  in  the  labyrinth  of  its  course  by  a  device 
anterior  to  the  injection  :  anterior  to  the  material 
itself. 
This  archetype,  the  co-ordinator  of  forms ;  this 
primordial  regulator  ;  have  you  got  it  on  the  end  of 
your  syringe  ?  No  !  Then  throw  away  your  product. 
Life  will  never  spring  from  that  chemical  filth. 