CHAPTER  V 
THE   MANTIS. — THE   CHASE 
There  is  another  creature  of  the  Midi  which  is  quite  as 
curious  and  interesting  as  the  Cigale,  but  much  less 
famous,  as  it  is  voiceless.  If  Providence  had  provided  it 
with  cymbals,  which  are  a  prime  element  of  popularity,  it 
would  soon  have  eclipsed  the  renown  of  the  celebrated 
singer,  so  strange  is  its  shape,  and  so  peculiar  its  manners. 
It  is  called  by  the  Provencals  lou  Prego-Dieu,  the  creature 
which  prays  to  God.  Its  official  name  is  the  Praying 
Mantis  {Mantis  religiosa,  Lin.). 
For  once  the  language  of  science  and  the  vocabulary 
of  the  peasant  agree.  Both  represent  the  Mantis  as  a 
priestess  delivering  oracles,  or  an  ascetic  in  a  mystic 
ecstasy.  The  comparison  is  a  matter  of  antiquity.  The 
ancient  Greeks  called  the  insect  Mai/nc,  the  divine,  the 
prophet.  The  worker  in  the  fields  is  never  slow  in  per- 
ceiving analogies  ;  he  will  always  generously  supplement 
the  vagueness  of  the  facts.  He  has  seen,  on  the  sun- 
burned herbage  of  the  meadows,  an  insect  of  command- 
ing appearance,  drawn  up  in  majestic  attitude.  He  has 
noticed  its  wide,  delicate  wings  of  green,  trailing 
behind  it  like  long  linen  veils  ;  he  has  seen  its  fore-limbs, 
its  arms,  so  to  speak,  raised  towards  to   the   sky  in  a 
m 
THE   MANTIS.—TIIE   CHASE  69 
gesture  of  invocation.  This  was  enough  :  popular  imagi- 
nation has  done  the  rest ;  so  that  since  the  period  of 
classical  antiquity  the  bushes  have  been  peopled  with 
priestesses  emitting  oracles  and  nuns  in  prayer. 
Good  people,  how  very  far  astray  your  childlike 
simplicity  has  led  you  !  These  attitudes  of  prayer  conceal 
the  most  atrocious  habits  ;  these  supplicating  arms  are 
lethal  weapons  ;  these  fingers  tell  no  rosaries,  but  help  to 
exterminate  the  unfortunate  passer-by.  It  is  an  excep- 
tion that  we  should  never  look  for  in  the  vegetarian 
family  of  the  Orthoptera,  but  the  Mantis  lives  exclusively 
upon  living  prey.  It  is  the  tiger  of  the  peaceful  insect 
peoples  ;  the  ogre  in  ambush  which  demands  a  tribute  of 
living  flesh.  If  it  only  had  sufficient  strength  its  blood- 
thirsty appetites,  and  its  horrible  perfection  of  concealment 
would  make  it  the  terror  of  the  countryside.  The  Prego- 
Dieu  would  become  a  Satanic  vampire. 
Apart  from  its  lethal  weapon  the  Mantis  has  nothing 
about  it  to  inspire  apprehension.  It  does  not  lack  a 
certain  appearance  of  graciousness,  with  its  slender  body, 
its  elegant  waist-line,  its  tender  green  colouring,  and  its 
long  gauzy  wings.  No  ferocious  jaws,  opening  like  shears  ; 
on  the  contrary,  a  fine  pointed  muzzle  which  seems  to  be 
made  for  billing  and  cooing.  Thanks  to  a  flexible  neck, 
set  freely  upon  the  thorax,  the  head  can  turn  to  right  or  left 
as  on  a  pivot,  bow,  or  raise  itself  high  in  the  air.  Alone 
among  insects,  the  Mantis  is  able  to  direct  its  gaze;  it 
inspects  and  examines ;  it  has  almost  a  physiognomy. 
There  is  a  very  great  contrast  between  the  body  as  a 
whole,  which  has  a  perfectly  peaceable  aspect,  and  the 
murderous  fore-limbs.  The  haunch  of  the  fore-limb  is  un- 
usually long  and  powerful.    Its  object  is  to  throw  forward 
to    SOCIAL   LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
the  living  trap  which  does  not  wait  for  the  victim,  but  goes 
in  search  of  it.  The  snare  is  embellished  with  a  certain 
amount  of  ornamentation.  On  the  inner  face  the  base 
of  the  haunch  is  decorated  with  a  pretty  black  spot 
relieved  by  smaller  spots  of  white,  and  a  few  rows  of  fine 
pearly  spots  complete  the  ornamentation. 
The  thigh,  still  longer,  like  a  flattened  spindle,  carries 
on  the  forward  half  of  the  lower  face  a  double  row  of 
steely  spines.  The  innermost  row  contains  a  dozen, 
alternately  long  and  black  and  short  and  green.  This 
alternation  of  unequal  lengths  makes  the  weapon  more 
effectual  for  holding.  The  outer  row  is  simpler,  having 
only  four  teeth.  Finally,  three  needle-like  spikes,  the 
longest  of  all,  rise  behind  the  double  series  of  spikes.  In 
short,  the  thigh  is  a  saw  with  two  parallel  edges, 
separated  by  a  groove  in  which  the  foreleg  lies  when 
folded. 
The  foreleg,  which  is  attached  to  the  thigh  by  a  very 
flexible  atticulation,  is  also  a  double-edged  saw,  but  the 
teeth  are  smaller,  more  numerous,  and  closer  than  those 
of  the  thigh.  It  terminates  in  a  strong  hook,  the  point  of 
which  is  as  sharp  as  the  finest  needle  :  a  hook  which 
is  fluted  underneath  and  has  a  double  blade  like  a 
pruning-knife. 
A  weapon  admirably  adapted  for  piercing  and  tearing, 
this  hook  has  sometimes  left  me  with  visible  remembran- 
ces. Caught  in  turn  by  the  creature  which  I  had  just 
captured,  and  not  having  both  hands  free,  I  have  often 
been  obliged  to  get  a  second  person  to  free  me  from  my 
tenacious  captive  !  To  free  oneself  by  violence  without 
disengaging  the  firmly  implanted  talons  would  result  in 
!  icerations  such  as  the  thorns  of  a  rosebush  will  produce 
1?HE  MANTIS.— THE  CHASE  U 
None  of  our  insects  is  so  inconvenient  to  handle. 
The  Mantis  digs  its  knife-blades  into  your  flesh,  pierces 
you  with  its  needles,  seizes  you  as  in  a  vice,  and  renders 
self-defence  almost  impossible  if,  wishing  to  take  your 
quarry  alive,  you  refrain  from  crushing  it  out  of  existence 
When  the  Mantis  is  in  repose  its  weapons  are  folded 
and  pressed  against  the  thorax,  and  are  perfectly  inoffen- 
sive in  appearance.  The  insect  is  apparently  praying. 
But  let  a  victim  come  within  reach,  and  the  attitude  of 
prayer  is  promptly  abandoned.  Suddenly  unfolded,  the 
three  long  joints  of  the  deadly  fore-limbs  shoot  out  their 
terminal  talons,  which  strike  the  victim  and  drag  it  back- 
wards between  the  two  saw-blades  of  the  thighs.  The 
vice  closes  with  a  movement  like  that  of  the  forearm 
upon  the  upper  arm,  and  all  is  over ;  crickets,  grass- 
hoppers, and  even  more  powerful  insects,  once  seized  in 
this  trap  with  its  four  rows  of  teeth,  are  lost  irreparably. 
Their  frantic  struggles  will  never  release  the  hold  of  this 
terrible  engine  of  destruction. 
The  habits  of  the  Mantis  cannot  be  continuously 
studied  in  the  freedom  of  the  fields  ;  the  insect  must  be 
domesticated.  There  is  no  difficulty  here  ;  the  Mantis  is 
quite  indifferent  to  imprisonment  under  glass,  provided 
it  is  well  fed.  Offer  it  a  tasty  diet,  feed  it  daily,  and  it 
will  feel  but  little  regret  for  its  native  thickets. 
For  cages  I  use  a  dozen  large  covers  of  wire  gauze, 
such  as  are  used  in  the  larder  to  protect  meat  from  the 
flies.  Each  rests  upon  a  tray  full  of  sand.  A  dry  tuft  of 
thyme  and  a  fiat  stone  on  which  the  eggs  may  be  laid 
later  on  complete  the  furnishing  of  such  a  dwelling. 
These  cages  are  placed  in  a  row  on  the  large  table  in  my 
entomological  laboratory,  where  the  sun  shines  on  thein 
72     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
during  the  greater  part  of  the  day.  There  I  install  my 
captives  ;  some  singly,  some  in  groups. 
It  is  in  the  latter  half  of  August  that  I  begin  to  meet 
with  the  adult  insect  on  the  faded  herbage  and  the 
brambles  at  the  roadside.  The  females,  whose  bellies 
are  already  swollen,  are  more  numerous  every  day. 
Their  slender  companions,  on  the  other  hand,  are  some- 
what rare,  and  I  often  have  some  trouble  in  completing 
my  couples ;  whose  relations  will  finally  be  terminated 
by  a  tragic  consummation.  But  we  will  reserve  these 
amenities  for  a  later  time,  and  will  consider  the  females 
first. 
They  are  tremendous  eaters,  so  that  their  entertainment, 
when  it  lasts  for  some  months  is  not  without  difficulties. 
Their  provisions  must  be  renewed  every  day,  for  the 
greater  part  are  disdainfully  tasted  and  thrown  aside. 
On  its  native  bushes  I  trust  the  Mantis  is  more 
economical.  Game  is  not  too  abundant,  so  that  she 
doubtless  devours  her  prey  to  the  last  atom  ;  but  in  ray 
cages  it  is  always  at  hand.  Often,  after  a  few  mouthfuls, 
the  insect  will  drop  the  juicy  morsel  without  displaying 
any  further  interest  in  it.  Such  is  the  ennui  of 
captivity  1 
To  provide  them  with  a  luxurious  table  I  have  to  call 
in  assistants.  Two  or  three  of  the  juvenile  unemployed 
of  my  neighbourhood,  bribed  by  slices  of  bread  and  jam 
or  of  melon,  search  morning  and  evening  on  the 
neighbouring  lawns,  where  they  fill  their  game-bags, 
little  cases  made  from  sections  of  reeds,  with  living 
grasshoppers  and  crickets.  On  my  own  part,  I  make 
a  daily  tour  of  the  paddock,  net  in  hand,  with  the  object 
of  obtaining  some  choice  dish  for  my  guests. 
THE  MANTIS.— THE   CHASE  73 
These  particular  captures  are  destined  to  show  me  just 
how  far  the  vigour  and  audacity  of  the  Mantis  will  lead 
it.  They  include  the  large  grey  cricket  (Pachyiylus 
cinerascens,  Fab.),  which  is  larger  than  the  creature  which 
devours  it ;  the  white-faced  Decticus,  armed  with 
powerful  mandibles  from  which  it  is  wise  to  guard  one's 
fingers ;  the  grotesque  Truxalis,  wearing  a  pyramidal 
mitre  on  its  head  ;  and  the  Ephippigera  of  the  vineyards, 
which  clashes  its  cymbals  and  carries  a  sabre  at  the  end 
of  its  barrel-shaped  abdomen.  To  this  assortment  of 
disobliging  creatures  let  us  add  two  horrors  :  the  silky 
Epeirus,  whose  disc-shaped  scalloped  abdomen  is  as  big 
as  a  shilling,  and  the  crowned  Epeirus,  which  is  horribly 
hairy  and  corpulent. 
I  cannot  doubt  that  the  Mantis  attacks  such  adversaries 
in  a  state  of  nature  when  I  see  it,  under  my  wire-gauze 
covers,  boldly  give  battle  to  whatever  is  placed  before 
it.  Lying  in  wait  among  the  bushes  it  must  profit  by  the 
prizes  bestowed  upon  it  by  hazard,  as  in  its  cage  it 
profits  by  the  wealth  of  diet  due  to  my  generosity.  The 
hunting  of  such  big  game  as  I  offer,  which  is  full  of 
danger,  must  form  part  of  the  creature's  usual  life, 
though  it  may  be  only  an  occasional  pastime,  perhaps 
to  the  great  regret  of  the  Mantis. 
Crickets  of  all  kinds,  butterflies,  bees,  large  flies  of  many 
species,  and  other  insects  of  moderate  size  :  such  is  the 
prey  that  we  habitually  find  in  the  embrace  of  the 
murderous  arms  of  the  Mantis,  But  in  my  cages  I  have 
never  known  the  audacious  huntress  to  recoil  before 
any  other  insect.  Grey  cricket,  Decticus,  Epeirus  or 
Truxalis,  sooner  or  later  all  are  harpooned,  held 
motionless   between    the   saw-edges   of    the    arms,   and 
74    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
deliciously  crunched  at   leisure.     The   process   deserves 
a  detailed  description. 
At  the  sight  of  a  great  cricket,  which  thoughtlessly 
approaches  along  the  wire-work  of  the  cover,  the  Mantis, 
shaken  by  a  convulsive  start,  suddenly  assumes  a  most 
terrifying  posture.  An  electric  shock  would  not  produce 
a  more  immediate  result.  The  transition  is  so  sudden,  the 
mimicry  so  threatening,  that  the  unaccustomed  observer 
will  draw  back  his  hand,  as  though  at  some  unknown 
danger.  Seasoned  as  I  am,  I  myself  must  confess  to 
being  startled  on  occasions  when  my  thoughts  have  been 
elsewhere.  The  creature  spreads  out  like  a  fan  actuated 
by  a  spring,  or  a  fantastic  Jack-in-the-box. 
The  wing-covers  open,  and  are  thrust  obliquely  aside ; 
the  wings  spring  to  their  full  width,  standing  up  like 
parallel  screens  of  transparent  gauze,  forming  a 
pyramidal  prominence  which  dominates  the  back ; 
the  end  of  the  abdomen  curls  upwards  crosier-wise, 
then  falls  and  unbends  itself  with  a  sort  of  swishing 
noise,  a  pouff  poufl  like  the  sound  emitted  by  the 
feathers  of  a  strutting  turkey-cock.  One  is  reminded 
of  the  puffing  of  a  startled  adder. 
Proudly  straddling  on  its  four  hind-claws,  the  insect 
holds  its  long  body  almost  vertical.  The  murderous 
fore-limbs,  at  first  folded  and  pressed  against  one  another 
on  the  thorax,  open  to  their  full  extent,  forming  a 
cross  with  the  body,  and  exhibiting  the  axillae  orna- 
mented with  rows  of  pearls,  and  a  black  spot  with  a 
central  point  of  white.  These  two  eyes,  faintly  recalling 
those  of  the  peacock's  tail,  and  the  fine  ebony  emboss- 
ments, are  part  of  the  blazonry  of  conflict,  concealed 
npon  ordinary  occasions.     Their  jewels  are  only  assumed 
THE   MANTIS.- THE  CHASE  75 
when  they  make  themselves  terrible  and  superb  for 
battle. 
Motionless  in  its  weird  position,  the  Mantis  surveys 
the  acridian,  its  gaze  fixed  upon  it,  its  head  turning 
gently  as  on  a  pivot  as  the  other  changes  place.  The 
object  of  this  mimicry  seems  evident ;  the  Mantis  wishes 
to  terrorise  its  powerful  prey,  to  paralyse  it  with  fright ; 
for  if  not  demoralised  by  fear  the  quarry  might  prove 
too  dangerous. 
Does  it  really  terrify  its  prey  ?  Under  the  shining 
head  of  the  Decticus,  behind  the  long  face  of  the  cricket, 
who  is  to  say  what  is  passing  ?  No  sign  of  emotion 
can  reveal  itself  upon  these  immovable  masks.  Yet 
it  seems  certain  that  the  threatened  creature  is  aware 
of  its  danger.  It  sees,  springing  up  before  it,  a  terrible 
spectral  form  with  talons  outstretched,  ready  to  fall 
upon  it ;  it  feels  itself  face  to  face  with  death,  and  fails 
to  flee  while  yet  there  is  time.  The  creature  that  excels 
in  leaping,  and  might  so  easily  escape  from  the  threat- 
ening claws,  the  wonderful  jumper  with  the  prodigious 
thighs,  remains  crouching  stupidly  in  its  place,  or  even 
approaches  the  enemy  with  deliberate  steps.^ 
'  It  is  not  easy  to  understand  why  the  Mantis  should  paralyse  the 
cricket  with  terror  while  the  latter  will  immediately  escape  when 
threatened  by  other  enemies.  As  many  species  of  Mantis  exactly 
mimic  sticks  and  leaves  when  motionless  for  purposes  of  defence, 
is  it  not  possible  that  tliey  mimic  their  surroundings  for  purposes 
of  offence  as  well  ?  It  is  easy  and  natural  to  say  that  the  Mantis 
presents  a  terrifying  aspect.  It  does  to  us,  by  association  ;  but  how 
can  we  say  that  it  represents  anything  of  the  sort  to  the  probably 
hypnotic  or  automatic  consciousness  of  the  cricket  ?  What  does 
it  really  represent,  as  seen  from  below  ?  A  twig,  terminating  in 
a  bud,  with  two  branching  twigs  growing  from  it,  and  a  harmless 
nondescript  fly  or  butterfly  perched  on  the  back  of  it.    The  com- 
76    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
It  is  said  that  young  birds,  paralysed  with  terror  by 
the  gaping  mouth  of  a  serpent,  or  fascinated  by  its  gaze, 
will  allow  themselves  to  be  snatched  from  the  nest, 
incapable  of  movement.  The  cricket  will  often  behave 
in  almost  the  same  way.  Once  within  reach  of  the 
enchantress,  the  grappling-hooks  are  thrown,  the  fangs 
strike,  the  double  saws  close  together  and  hold  the 
victim  in  a  vice.  Vainly  the  captive  struggles ;  his 
mandibles  chew  the  air,  his  desperate  kicks  meet  with 
no  resistance.  He  has  met  with  his  fate.  The  Mantis 
refolds  her  wings,  the  standard  of  battle  ;  she  resumes 
her  normal  pose,  and  the  meal  commences. 
In  attacking  the  Truxalis  and  the  Ephippigera,  less 
dangerous  game  than  the  grey  cricket  and  the  Decticus, 
the  spectral  pose  is  less  imposing  and  of  shorter  dura- 
tion. It  is  often  enough  to  throw  forward  the  talons; 
this  is  so  in  the  case  of  the  Epeirus,  which  is  seized 
by  the  middle  of  the  body,  without  a  thought  of  its 
venomous  claws.  With  the  smaller  crickets,  which 
are  the  customary  diet  in  my  cages  as  at  liberty,  the 
Mantis  rarely  employs  her  means  of  intimidation  ;  she 
merely  seizes  the  heedless  passer-by  as  she  lies  in  wait. 
When  the  insect  to  be  captured  may  present  some 
serious  resistance,  the  Mantis  is  thus  equipped  with 
a  pose  which  terrifies  or  perplexes,  fascinates  or  absorbs 
bination  of  a  familiar  sight  and  a  threatening  sound  would  very 
plausibly  result  in  cautious  immobility.  As  for  its  instantaneous 
assumption  of  the  pose,  to  move  instantaneously  is  the  next  best 
thing  to  not  moving  at  all.  It  is  less  likely  to  startle  than  a  slow 
movement.  Twigs  which  have  been  bent  get  suddenly  released 
in  the  natural  course  of  events  ;  they  do  not  move  slowly.  The 
instantaneous  appearance  of  a  twig  where  no  twig  was  before  may 
possibly  give  the  victim  pause  ;  it  may  halt  out  of  caution,  not  out 
of  terror. — [Tkans.] 
THE   MANTIS.-THE   CHASE  77 
the  prey,  while  it  enables  her  talons  to  strike  with  greater 
certainty.  Her  gins  close  on  a  demoralised  victim, 
incapable  of  or  unready  for  defence.  She  freezes  the 
quarry  with  fear  or  amazement  by  suddenly  assuming 
the  attitude  of  a  spectre. 
The  wings  play  an  important  part  in  this  fantastic 
pose.  They  are  very  wide,  green  on  the  outer  edge, 
but  colourless  and  transparent  elsewhere.  Numerous 
nervures,  spreading  out  fanwise,  cross  them  in  the 
direction  of  their  length.  Others,  transversal  but  finer, 
cut  the  first  at  right  angles,  forming  with  them  a  mul- 
titude of  meshes.  In  the  spectral  attitude  the  wings 
are  outspread  and  erected  in  two  parallel  planes  which 
are  almost  in  contact,  like  the  wings  of  butterflies  in 
repose.  Between  the  two  the  end  of  the  abdomen 
rapidly  curls  and  uncurls.  From  the  rubbing  of  the 
belly  against  the  network  of  nervures  proceeds  the 
species  of  pufhng  sound  which  I  have  compared  to 
the  hissing  of  an  adder  in  a  posture  of  defence.  To 
imitate  this  curious  sound  it  is  enough  rapidly  to 
stroke  the  upper  face  of  an  outstretched  wing  with  the 
tip  of  the  finger-nail. 
In  a  moment  of  hunger,  after  a  fast  of  some  days, 
the  large  grey  cricket,  which  is  as  large  as  the  Mantis 
or  larger,  will  be  entirely  consumed  with  the  exception 
of  tlie  wings,  which  are  too  dry.  Two  hours  are 
sufficient  for  the  completion  of  this  enormous  meal, 
^uch  an  orgy  is  rare.  I  have  witnessed  it  two  or  three 
times,  always  asking  myself  where  the  gluttonous  crea 
ture  found  room  for  so  much  food,  and  how  it  con 
trived  to  reverse  in  its  own  favour  the  axiom  that  the 
content  is  less  than  that  which  contains  it.     I  can  only 
78    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
admire  the  privileges  of  a  stomach  in  which  matter  is 
digested  immediately  upon  entrance,  dissolved  and  made 
away  with. 
The  usual  diet  of  the  Mantis  under  my  wire  cages 
consists  of  crickets  of  different  species  and  varying 
greatly  in  size.  It  is  interesting  to  watch  the  Mantis 
nibbling  at  its  cricket,  which  it  holds  in  the  vice 
formed  by  its  murderous  fore-limbs.  In  spite  of  the 
fine-pointed  muzzle,  which  hardly  seems  made  for 
such  ferocity,  the  entire  insect  disappears  excepting  the 
wings,  of  which  only  the  base,  which  is  slightly  fleshy, 
is  consumed.  Legs,  claws,  horny  integuments,  all  else 
is  eaten.  Sometimes  the  great  hinder  thigh  is  seized 
by  the  knuckle,  carried  to  the  mouth,  tasted,  and 
crunched  with  a  little  air  of  satisfaction.  The  swollen 
thigh  of  the  cricket  might  well  be  a  choice  "  cut "  for 
the  Mantis,  as  a  leg  of  lamb  is  for  us  ! 
The  attack  on  the  victim  begins  at  the  back  of  the 
neck  or  base  of  the  head.  While  one  of  the  mur- 
derous talons  holds  the  quarry  gripped  by  the  middle 
of  the  body,  the  other  presses  the  head  downwards, 
so  that  the  articulation  between  the  back  and  the 
neck  is  stretched  and  opens  slightly.  The  snout  of 
the  Mantis  gnaws  and  burrows  into  this  undefended 
spot  with  a  certain  persistence,  and  a  large  wound  is 
opened  in  the  neck.  At  the  lesion  of  the  cephalic 
ganglions  the  struggles  of  the  cricket  grow  less,  and 
the  victim  becomes  a  motionless  corpse.  Thence, 
unrestricted  in  its  movements,  this  beast  of  prey  chooses 
its  mouthfuls  at  leisure. 