CHAPTER   VII 
THE   MANTIS. — THE   NEST 
Let  us  take  a  more  pleasant  aspect  of  the  insect  whose 
loves  are  so  tragic.  Its  nest  is  a  marvel.  In  scientific  lan- 
guage it  is  known  as  the  ooiek,  or  the  "  egg-box."  I  shall 
not  make  use  of  this  barbarous  expression.  As  one  does 
not  speak  of  the  "  egg-box "  of  the  titmouse,  meaning 
"  the  nest  of  the  titmouse,"  why  should  I  invoke  the  box 
in  speaking  of  the  Mantis  ?  It  may  look  more  scientific  ; 
but  that  does  not  interest  me. 
The  nest  of  the  Praying  Mantis  may  be  found  almost 
everywhere  in  places  exposed  to  the  sun  :  on  stones, 
wood,  vine  stocks,  the  twigs  of  bushes,  stems  of  dried 
grass,  and  even  on  products  of  human  industry,  such  as 
fragments  of  brick,  rags  of  heavy  cloth,  and  pieces  of 
old  boots.  Any  support  will  suffice,  so  long  as  it  offers 
inequalities  to  which  the  base  of  the  nest  may  adhere, 
and  so  provide  a  solid  foundation.  The  usual  dimen- 
sions of  the  nest  are  one  and  a  half  inches  long  by 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  wide,  or  a  trifle  larger.  The 
colour  is  a  pale  tan,  like  that  of  a  grain  of  wheat. 
Brought  in  contact  with  a  flame  the  nest  burns  readily, 
and  emits  an  odour  like  that  of  burning  silk.  The 
material  of  the  nest  is  in  fact  a  substance  similar  to  silk, 
but  instead  of  being  drawn  into  a  thread  it  is  allowed  to 
8B 
THE   MANTIS.— THE   NEST  87 
harden  while  a  mass  of  spongy  foam.  If  the  nest  is  fixed 
on  a  branch  the  base  creeps  round  it,  envelops  the 
neighbouring  twigs,  and  assumes  a  variable  shape 
according  to  the  accidents  of  support ;  if  it  is  fixed  on 
a  flat  surface  the  under  side,  which  is  always  moulded 
by  the  support,  is  itself  flat.  The  nest  then  takes  the 
form  of  a  demi-ellipsoid,  or,  in  other  words,  half  an  egg 
cut  longitudinally ;  more  or  less  obtuse  at  one  end,  but 
pointed  at  the  other,  and  sometimes  ending  in  a  short 
curved  tail. 
In  all  cases  the  upper  face  is  convex  and  regular.  In 
it  we  can  distinguish  three  well-marked  and  longitudinal 
zones.  The  middle  zone,  which  is  narrower  than  the 
others,  is  composed  of  thin  plates  arranged  in  couples, 
and  overlapping  like  the  tiles  of  a  roof.  The  edges  of 
these  plates  are  free,  leaving  two  parallel  series  of  fissures 
by  which  the  young  can  issue  when  the  eggs  are  hatched. 
In  a  nest  recently  abandoned  this  zone  is  covered  with 
fine  cast-off  skins  which  shiver  at  the  least  breath,  and 
soon  disappear  when  exposed  to  the  open  air.  I  will  call 
this  zone  the  zone  of  issue,  as  it  is  only  along  this  bell 
that  the  young  can  escape,  being  set  free  by  those  that 
have  preceded  them. 
In  all  other  directions  the  cradle  of  this  numerous 
family  presents  an  unbroken  wall.  The  two  laterat 
zones,  which  occupy  the  greater  part  of  the  demi-ellipsoid, 
have  a  perfect  continuity  of  surface.  The  little  Mantes, 
which  are  very  feeble  when  first  hatched,  could  not 
possibly  make  their  way  through  the  tenacious  substance 
of  the  walls.  On  the  interior  of  these  walls  are  a  number 
of  fine  transverse  furrows,  signs  of  the  various  layers  in 
which  the  mass  of  eggs  is  disposed. 
88    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE   INSECT   WORLD 
Let  us  cut  the  nest  in  half  transversely.  We  shall 
then  see  that  the  mass  of  eggs  constitutes  an  elongated 
core,  of  very  firm  consistency,  surrounded  as  to  the 
bottom  and  sides  by  a  thick  porous  rind,  like  solidified 
foam.  Above  the  eggs  are  the  curved  plates,  which  are 
set  very  closely  and  have  little  freedom ;  their  edges 
constituting  the  zone  of  issue,  where  they  form  a  double 
series  of  small  overlapping  scales. 
The  eggs  are  set  in  a  yellowish  medium  of  horny 
appearance.  They  are  arranged  in  layers,  in  lines 
forming  arcs  of  a  circle,  with  the  cephalic  extremities 
converging  towards  the  zone  of  issue.  This  orientation 
tells  us  of  the  method  of  delivery.  The  newly-born 
larvae  will  slip  into  the  interval  between  two  adjacent 
flaps  or  leaves,  which  form  a  prolongation  of  the  core ; 
they  will  then  find  a  narrow  passage,  none  too  easy  to 
effect,  but  sufficient,  having  regard  to  the  curious  pro- 
vision which  we  shall  deal  with  directly  ;  they  will  then 
reach  the  zone  of  issue.  There,  under  the  overlapping 
scales,  two  passages  of  exit  open  for  each  layer  of  eggs. 
Half  the  larvns  will  issue  by  the  right-hand  passage,  half 
by  that  on  the  left  hand.  This  process  is  repeated  for 
each  layer,  from  end  to  end  of  the  nest. 
Let  us  sum  up  those  structural  details,  which  are 
not  easily  grasped  unless  one  has  the  nest  before  one. 
Lying  along  the  axis  of  the  nest,  and  in  shape  like  a 
date-stone,  is  the  mass  of  eggs,  grouped  in  layers.  A 
protective  rind,  a  kind  of  solidified  foam,  envelops  this 
core,  except  at  the  top,  along  the  central  line,  where  the 
porous  rind  is  replaced  by  thin  overlapping  leaves.  The 
free  edges  of  these  leaves  form  the  exterior  of  the  zone 
ojf  issue  ;  they  overlap  one  another,  forming  two  series  of 
3« 
NEST  OF  THE   PKAYING   MANTIS. 
T,a.   NEST  OF   EMPUSA   PAUPERATA. 
VERTICAI.   SECTION    OF    THE   SAME. 
SCHEFFEK's  SISYPHUS  (sCf  Chap.  XII.) 
PELLET     OF     THE     SISYPHUS,     WITH 
THHOlCiH    THE     WALLS. 
I     TRANSVERSE   SECTU)N   OF   THE   SAME. 
4.    TRANSVERSE    SECTION    OF   THE   SAME. 
().    NEST   OF   THE   i^RKY    MANTIS. 
8     PELLET   OF   THE    SISYPHUS. 
DEJECTA     OF     THE      LARVA     FORCED 
To  face  p.  88. 
THE   MANTIS.— THE  NEST  89 
scales,  leaving  two  exits,  in  the  shape  of  narrow  crevices, 
for  each  layer  of  eggs. 
To  be  present  at  the  construction  of  the  nest — to 
learn  how  the  Mantis  contrives  to  build  so  complex  a 
structure — such  was  the  main  point  of  my  researches.  I 
succeeded,  not  without  difficulty,  as  the  eggs  are  laid 
without  warning  and  nearly  always  at  night.  After  a 
great  deal  of  futile  endeavour,  cliance  at  last  favoured 
me.  On  the  5th  of  September  one  of  my  guests, 
fecundated  on  the  29th  of  August,  began  to  make  her 
preparations  under  my  eyes,  at  four  o'clock  in  the 
afternoon. 
One  remark  before  proceeding  :  all  the  nests  I  have 
obtained  in  the  laboratory — and  I  have  obtained  a  good 
number — have  without  exception  been  built  upon  the 
wire  gauze  of  the  covers.  I  have  been  careful  to  provide 
the  insects  with  roughened  stones  and  tufts  of  thyme, 
both  being  very  commonly  used  as  foundations  in  the 
open  fields.  The  captives  have  always  preferred  the 
network  of  wire  gauze,  which  affords  a  perfectly  firm 
foundation,  as  the  soft  material  of  the  nest  becomes 
incrusted  upon  the  meshes  as  it  hardens. 
In  natural  conditions  the  nests  are  never  in  any  way 
sheltered  ;  they  support  the  inclemencies  of  winter, 
resist  rain,  wind,  frost,  and  snow,  without  becoming 
detached.  It  is  true  that  the  female  always  selects  an 
uneven  support  on  which  the  foundations  of  the  nest 
can  be  shaped,  thus  obtaining  a  firm  hold.  The  site 
chosen  is  always  the  best  obtainable  within  reach, 
and  the  wire  gauze  is  constantly  adopted  as  the  best 
foundation  obtainable  in  the  cages. 
The  only  Mantis  that   I  was  able  to   observe  at   the 
90    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
moment  of  laying  her  eggs  worked  upside-down, 
clinging  to  the  wire  near  the  top  of  the  cover.  M51 
presence,  my  magnifying-glass,  my  investigations  did  not 
disturb  her  in  the  least,  so  absorbed  was  she  in  her 
labours.  I  was  able  to  lift  up  the  dome  of  wire  gauze, 
tilt  it,  reverse  it,  turn  it  over  and  reverse  it  again,  without 
causing  the  msect  to  delay  her  task  for  a  moment.  I 
was  able,  with  my  tweezers,  to  raise  the  long  wings  in 
order  to  observe  rather  more  closely  what  was  taking 
place  beneath  them ;  the  Mantis  took  absolutely  no 
notice  of  me.  So  far  all  was  well  ;  the  female  did  not 
move,  and  lent  herself  impassively  to  all  the  indiscretions 
of  the  observer.  Nevertheless,  matters  did  not  proceed 
as  I  had  wished,  so  rapid  was  the  operation  and  so 
difficult  observation. 
The  end  of  the  abdomen  is  constantly  immersed  in 
a  blob  of  foam,  which  does  not  allow  one  to  grasp  the 
details  of  the  process  very  clearly.  This  foam  is  of  a 
greyish  white,  slightly  viscous,  and  almost  like  soapsuds. 
At  the  moment  of  its  appearance  it  adheres  slightly 
to  the  end  of  a  straw  plunged  into  it.  Two  minutes 
later  it  is  solidified  and  no  longer  adheres  to  the  straw. 
In  a  short  time  its  consistency  is  that  of  the  substance  of 
an  old  nest. 
The  foamy  mass  consists  chiefly  of  air  imprisoned 
in  minute  bubbles.  This  air,  which  gives  the  nest  a 
volume  very  much  greater  than  that  of  the  abdomen  of 
the  Mantis,  evidently  does  not  issue  from  the  insect 
although  the  foam  appears  at  the  orifice  of  the  genital 
organs ;  it  is  borrowed  from  the  atmosphere.  The 
Mantis  builds  more  especially  with  air,  which  is 
eminently  adapted  to  protect   the  nest   against  changes 
1.  THE    MANTIS    DEVOURING   THE    MALE    IN    THE    ACT    OF    MATING. 
2.  THE    MANTIS    COMPLETING    HER    NEST. 
3.  GOLDEN    SCARABA:I    CUTTING    UP    A    LOB-WORM. 
THE  MANTIS— THE   NEST  91 
of  temperature.  She  emits  a  glutinous  substance  like 
the  liquid  secretion  of  silk-worms,  and  with  this 
composition,  mixed  instantaneously  wjth  the  outer  air, 
she  produces  the  foam  of  which  the  nest  is  constructed. 
She  whips  the  secretion  as  we  whip  white  of  egg, 
in  order  to  make  it  rise  and  stifiFen.  The  extremity  of 
the  abdomen  opens  in  a  long  cleft,  forming  two  lateral 
ladles  which  open  and  shut  with  a  rapid,  incessant 
movement,  beating  the  viscous  liquid  and  converting  it 
into  foam  as  it  is  secreted.  Beside  the  two  oscillating 
ladles  we  see  the  internal  organs  rising  and  falling, 
protruding  and  retreating  like  a  piston-rod,  but  it  is 
impossible  to  observe  the  precise  nature  of  their  action, 
bathed  as  they  are  in  the  opaque  blob  of  foam. 
The  end  of  the  abdomen,  continually  palpitating, 
rapidly  closing  and  opening  its  valves,  oscillates  right 
and  left  like  a  pendulum.  From  each  of  these  oscilla- 
tions results  a  layer  of  eggs  in  the  interior,  and  a 
transversal  crevice  on  the  exterior.  As  it  advances  in 
the  arc  described,  suddenly,  and  at  frequent  intervals, 
it  plunges  deeper  into  the  foam,  as  though  burying 
something  at  the  bottom  of  the  frothy  mass.  Each  time 
it  does  so  an  egg  is  doubtless  deposited ;  but  the 
operation  is  so  rapid,  and  takes  place  under  conditions 
so  unfavourable  for  observation,  that  I  have  never  once 
been  enabled  to  see  the  oviduct  at  work.  I  can  only 
judge  of  the  advent  of  the  eggs  by  the  movements  of  the 
end  of  the  abdomen,  which  is  immersed  more  deeply 
with  a  sudden  plunging  movement. 
At  the  same  time  the  viscous  composition  is  emitted 
in  intermittent  waves,  and  is  beaten  into  a  foam  by  the 
terminal  valves.     The  foam  thus  obtained  spreads  itself 
92    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
over  the  sides  and  at  the  base  of  the  layer  of  eggs,  and 
projects  through  the  meshes  of  the  wire  gauze  as  a 
result  of  the  pressure  of  the  abdomen.  Thus  the  spongy 
envelope  is  progressively  created  as  the  ovaries  are 
gradually  emptied. 
I  imagine,  although  I  cannot  speak  as  the  result  of 
direct  observation,  that  for  the  central  core,  where  the 
eggs  are  surrounded  by  a  material  more  homogeneous 
than  that  of  the  outer  shell,  the  Mantis  must  employ  her 
secretion  as  it  emerges,  without  beating  it  into  a  foam. 
The  layer  of  eggs  once  deposited,  the  two  valves  would 
produce  the  foam  required  to  envelop  the  eggs.  It  is 
extremely  difficult,  however,  to  guess  what  occurs 
beneath  the  veil  of  foam-like  secretion. 
In  a  recent  nest  the  zone  of  issue  is  surrounded  by  a 
layer  of  finely  porous  matter,  of  a  pure  matt,  almost 
chalky  white,  which  contrasts  distinctly  with  the 
remainder  of  the  nest,  which  is  of  a  dirty  white.  It 
resembles  the  icing  composition  made  by  confectioners 
with  whipped  white  of  egg,  sugar,  and  starch,  for  the 
ornamentation  of  cakes. 
This  snowy  border  is  easily  crumbled  and  easily  de- 
tached. When  it  disappears  the  zone  of  issue  is  clearly 
defined,  with  its  double  series  of  leaves  with  free  edges. 
Exposure  to  the  weather,  wind,  and  rain  result  in  its 
disappearance,  fragment  by  fragment,  so  that  old  nests 
preserve  no  trace  of  it. 
At  first  sight  one  is  tempted  to  regard  this  snowy 
substance  as  of  a  different  material  to  the  rest  of  the 
nest.  But  does  the  Mantis  really  employ  two  secretions  ? 
No.  Anatomy,  in  the  first  place,  assures  us  of  the  unity 
ot  the  materials  of  the  nest.    The  or^an  which  secretes 
THE  MANTIS.— THE  NEST  08 
the  substance  of  the  nest  consists  of  cylindrical  tubes, 
having  a  curious  tangled  appearance,  which  are  arranged 
in  two  groups  of  twenty  each.  They  are  all  filled  with 
a  colourless,  viscous  fluid,  which  is  precisely  similar  in 
appearance  in  all  parts  of  the  organ.  There  is  no  indi- 
cation of  any  organ  or  secretion  which  could  produce  a 
chalky  coloration. 
Moreover,  the  method  by  which  the  snowy  band  is 
formed  rejects  the  idea  of  a  different  material.  We  see 
the  two  caudal  appendices  of  the  Mantis  sweeping  the 
surface  of  the  foamy  mass,  and  skimming,  so  to  speak, 
the  cream  of  the  cream,  gathering  it  together,  and  retain- 
ing it  along  the  hump  of  the  nest  in  such  a  way  as  to 
form  a  band  like  a  ribbon  of  icing.  What  remains  after 
this  scouring  process,  or  what  oozes  from  the  band  before 
it  has  set,  spreads  over  the  sides  of  the  nest  in  a  thin 
layer  of  bubbles  so  fine  that  they  cannot  be  distinguished 
without  the  aid  of  a  lens. 
We  often  see  a  torrent  of  muddy  water,  full  of  clay  in 
suspension,  covered  with  great  streaks  and  masses  of 
foam.  On  this  fundamental  foam,  so  to  call  it,  which 
is  soiled  with  earthy  matters,  we  see  here  and  there  masses 
of  a  beautiful  white  foam,  in  which  the  bubbles  are  much 
smaller.  A  process  of  selection  results  from  variations  in 
density,  and  here  and  there  we  see  foam  white  as  snow 
resting  on  the  dirty  foam  from  which  it  is  produced. 
Something  of  the  kind  occurs  when  the  Mantis  builds 
her  nest.  The  two  appendices  whip  the  viscous  secretion 
of  the  glands  into  foam.  The  lightest  portion,  whose 
bubbles  are  of  the  greatest  tenuity,  which  is  white  on 
account  of  its  finer  porosity,  rises  to  the  surface,  where 
the  caudal    filaments    sweep    it   up    and   gather    it   into 
Q4    SOCIAL  UFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
the  snowy  ribbon  which  runs  along  the  summit  of 
the  nest. 
So  far,  with  a  Httle  patience,  observation  is  possible 
and  yields  a  satisfactory  result.  It  becomes  impossible 
in  the  matter  of  the  complex  central  zone,  where  the 
exits  for  the  larvae  are  contrived  through  the  double 
series  of  overlapping  leaves.  The  little  I  have  been  able 
to  learn  amounts  to  this :  The  end  of  the  abdomen, 
deeply  cleft  in  a  horizontal  direction,  forms  a  kind  of 
fork,  of  which  the  upper  extremity  remains  almost 
motionless,  while  the  lower  continuously  oscillates,  pro- 
ducing the  foam  and  depositing  the  eggs.  The  creation 
of  the  central  zone  is  certainly  the  work  of  the  upper 
extremity. 
It  is  always  to  be  seen  in  the  continuation  of  this 
central  zone,  in  the  midst  of  the  fine  white  foam  gathered 
up  by  the  caudal  filaments.  The  latter  delimit  the  zone, 
one  v^'orking  on  either  side,  feeling  the  edges  of  the  belt, 
and  apparently  testing  it  and  judging  its  progress.  These 
two  filaments  are  like  two  long  fingers  of  exquisite  sensi- 
tiveness, which  direct  the  difficult  operation. 
But  how  are  the  two  series  of  scales  obtained,  and  the 
fissures,  the  gates  of  exit  which  they  shelter  ?  I  do 
not  know  ;  I  cannot  even  imagine.  I  leave  tlie  end  of 
the  problem  to  others. 
What  a  wonderful  mechanism  is  this,  that  has  the 
power  to  emit  and  to  form,  so  quickly  and  methodi- 
cally, the  horny  medium  of  the  central  kernel,  the  foam 
which  forms  the  protective  walls,  the  white  creamy  foam 
of  the  ribbon  which  runs  along  the  central  zone,  the 
eggs,  and  the  fecundating  liquid,  while  at  the  same  time 
it  constructs  the  overlappmg  leaves,  the  imbricated  scales, 
THE  MANTIS.— THE  NEST  95 
and  the  alternating  series  of  open  fissures  !  We  are  lost 
in  the  face  of  such  a  wonder.  Yet  how  easily  the  work 
is  performed  !  Clinging  to  the  wire  gauze,  forming,  so 
to  speak,  the  axis  of  her  nest,  the  Mantis  barely  moves. 
She  bestows  not  a  glance  on  the  marvel  which  is  growing 
behind  her ;  her  limbs  are  used  only  for  support ;  they 
take  no  part  in  the  building  of  the  nest.  The  nest  is 
built,  if  we  may  say  so,  automatically.  It  is  not  the 
result  of  industry  and  the  cunning  of  instinct;  it  is  a 
purely  mechanical  task,  which  is  conditioned  by  the 
implements,  by  the  organisation  of  the  insect.  The  nest, 
complex  though  it  is  in  structure,  results  solely  from  the 
functioning  of  the  organs,  as  in  our  human  industries 
a  host  of  objects  are  mechanically  fashioned  whose  per- 
fection puts  the  dexterity  of  the  fingers  to  shame. 
From  another  point  of  view  the  nest  of  the  Mantis  is 
even  more  remarkable.  It  forms  an  excellent  application 
of  one  of  the  most  valuable  lessons  of  physical  science  in 
the  matter  of  the  conservation  of  heat.  The  Mantis  has 
outstripped  humanity  in  her  knowledge  of  thermic  non- 
conductors or  insulators. 
The  famous  physicist  Rumford  was  responsible  for  a 
very  pretty  experiment  designed  to  demonstrate  the  low 
conductivity  of  air  where  heat  other  than  radiant  heat  is 
concerned.  The  famous  scientist  surrounded  a  frozen 
cheese  by  a  mass  of  foam  consisting  of  well-beaten  eggs. 
The  whole  was  exposed  to  the  heat  of  an  oven.  In  a 
few  minutes  a  light  omelette  was  obtained,  piping  hot, 
but  the  cheese  in  the  centre  was  as  cold  as  at  the  outset. 
The  air  imprisoned  in  the  bubbles  of  the  surrounding 
froth  accounts  for  the  phenomenon.  Extremely  refrac- 
tory to  heat,  it  had  absorbed  the  heat  of  the  oven  and 
96    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
had  prevented  it  from  reaching  the  frozen  substance  in 
the  centre  of  the  omelette. 
Now,  what  does  the  Mantis  do  ?  Precisely  what  Rum- 
ford  did;  she  whips  her  albumen  to  obtain  a  soufflee,  a 
froth  composed  of  myriads  of  tiny  air-bubbles,  which  will 
protect  the  germs  of  life  contained  in  the  central  core. 
It  is  true  that  her  aim  is  reversed  ;  the  coagulated  foam 
of  the  nest  is  a  safeguard  against  cold,  not  against  heat, 
but  what  will  afford  protection  from  the  one  will  afford 
protection  from  the  other ;  so  that  Rumford,  had  he 
wished,  might  equally  well  have  maintained  a  hot  body 
at  a  high  temperature  in  a  refrigerator. 
Rumford  understood  the  athermic  properties  of  a 
blanket  of  air-cells,  thanks  to  the  accumulated  know- 
ledge of  his  predecessors  and  his  own  studies  and 
experiments.  How  is  it  that  the  Mantis,  for  who  knows 
how  many  ages,  has  been  able  to  outstrip  our  physicists 
in  this  problem  in  calorics  ?  How  did  she  learn  to  sur- 
round her  eggs  with  this  mass  of  solidifying  froth,  so 
that  it  was  able,  although  fixed  to  a  bough  or  a  stone 
without  other  shelter,  to  brave  with  impunity  the  rigours 
of  winter  ? 
The  other  Mantes  found  in  my  neighbourhood,  which 
are  the  only  species  of  which  I  can  speak  with  full  know- 
ledge, employ  or  omit  the  envelope  of  solidifying  froth 
accordingly  as  the  eggs  are  or  are  not  intended  to  survive 
the  winter.  The  little  Grey  Mantis  (Ameles  decolor),  which 
differs  so  widely  from  the  Praying  Mantis  in  that  the 
wings  of  the  female  are  almost  completely  absent,  builds 
a  nest  hardly  as  large  as  a  cherry-stone,  and  covers  it 
skilfully  with  a  porous  rind.  Why  this  cellular  envelope  ? 
Because  the  nest  of  the  Ameles,  like  that  of  the  Praying 
THE  MANTIS—THE  NEST  97 
Mantis,  has  to  endure  through  the  winter,  fixed  to  a  stone 
or  a  twig,  and  is  thus  exposed  to  the  full  severity  of  the 
dangerous  season. 
The  Empusa  pauperaia,  on  the  other  hand  (one  of  the 
strangest  of  European  insects),  builds  a  nest  as  small  as 
that  6f  the  Ameles,  although  the  insect  itself  is  as  large 
as   the    Praying   Mantis.     This    nest    is    quite    a    small 
structure,  composed  of  a  small  number  of  cells,  arranged 
side  by  side  in  three  or  four  series,  sloping  together  at 
the   neck.     Here   there   is  a   complete   absence   of    the 
porous   envelope,  although    the   nest   is  exposed  to  the 
weather,   like  the   previous   examples,   affixed    to    some 
twig   or  fragment  of  rock.     The  lack  of   the  insulating 
rmd  is  a  sign  of  different  climatic  conditions.     The  ecrgs 
of  the  Empusa  hatch  shortly  after  they  are  laid,  in  wa^'rm 
and  sunny  weather.     Not  being  exposed  to  the  asperities 
of  the  winter,  they  need  no  protection  other  than  the 
thin  egg-cases  themselves. 
Are  these  nice  and  reasonable  precautions,  which 
rival  the  experiment  of  Rumford,  a  fortuitous  result  ?- 
one  of  the  innumerable  combinations  which  fall  from 
the  urn  of  chance  ?  If  so,  let  us  not  recoil  before  the 
absurd  :  let  us  allow  that  the  blindness  of  chance  is 
gifted  with  marvellous  foresight. 
The  Praying  Mantis  commences  her  nest  at  the 
blunter  extremity,  and  completes  it  at  the  pointed 
tail.  The  latter  is  often  prolonged  in  a  sort  of 
promontory,  in  which  the  insect  expends  the  last  drop 
of  glutinous  liquid  as  she  stretches  herself  after  her  task 
A  sitting  of  two  hours,  more  or  less,  without  interruption 
IS  required  for  the  total  accomplishment  of  the  work' 
Directly  the  period  of  labour  is  over,  the  mother  wuh- 
08    SOCIAL   LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
draws,  indifferent  henceforth  to  her  completed  task. 
I  have  watched  her,  half  expecting  to  see  her  return, 
to  discover  some  tenderness  for  the  cradle  of  her 
family.  But  no ;  not  a  trace  of  maternal  pleasure. 
The  work  is  done,  and  concerns  her  no  longer. 
Crickets  approach  ;  one  of  them  even  squats  upon 
the  nest.  The  Mantis  takes  no  notice  of  them. 
They  are  peaceful  intruders,  to  be  sure ;  but  even 
were  they  dangerous,  did  they  threaten  to  rifle  the 
nest,  would  she  attack  them  and  drive  them  away  ? 
Her  impassive  demeanour  convinces  me  that  she 
would  not.  What  is  the  nest  to  her  ?  She  is  no 
longer  conscious  of  it. 
I  have  spoken  of  the  many  embraces  to  which  the 
Praying  Mantis  submits,  and  of  the  tragic  end  of  the 
male,  who  is  almost  invariably  devoured  as  though  a 
lawful  prey.  In  the  space  of  a  fortnight  I  have  known 
the  same  female  to  adventure  upon  matrimony  no  less 
than  seven  times.  Each  time  the  readily  consoled 
widow  devoured  her  mate.  Such  habits  point  to 
frequent  laying  ;  and  we  find  the  appearance  confirmed, 
though  not  as  a  general  rule.  Some  of  my  females 
gave  me  one  nest  only  ;  others  two,  the  second  as 
capacious  as  the  first.  The  most  fruitful  of  all  produced 
three  ;  of  these  the  two  first  were  of  normal  dimensions, 
while  the  third  was  about  half  the  usual  size. 
From  this  we  can  reckon  the  productivity  of  the 
insect's  ovaries.  From  the  transverse  fissures  of  the 
median  zone  of  the  nest  it  is  easy  to  estimate  the  layers 
of  egi^s  ;  but  these  layers  contain  more  or  fewer  eggs 
according  to  their  position  in  the  middle  of  the  nest  or 
near  the  ends.     The  numbers  contained  by  the  widest 
THE  MANTIS.— THE  NEST  99 
and  narrowest  layers  will  give  us  an  approximate  average. 
I  find  that  a  nest  of  fair  size  contains  about  four  hundred 
eggs.  Thus  the  maker  of  the  three  nests,  of  which  the  last 
was  half  as  large  as  the  others,  produced  no  less  than 
a  thousand  eggs  ;  eight  hundred  were  deposited  in  the 
larger  nests  and  two  or  three  hundred  in  the  smaller. 
Truly  a  fine  family,  but  a  thought  ungainly,  were  it  not 
that  only  a  few  of  its  members  can  survive. 
Of  a  fair  size,  of  curious  structure,  and  well  in  evidence 
on  its  twig  or  stone,  the  nest  of  the  Praying  Mantis  could 
hardly  escape  the  attention  of  the  Provenfal  peasant. 
It  is  well  known  in  the  country  districts,  where  it  goes 
by  the  name  of  tigno  ;  it  even  enjoys  a  certain  celebrity. 
But  no  one  seems  to  be  aware  of  its  origin.  It  is 
always  a  surprise  to  my  rustic  neighbours  when  they 
learn  that  the  well-known  tigno  is  the  nest  of  the 
common  Mantis,  the  Prego-Dieu.  This  ignorance  may 
well  proceed  from  the  nocturnal  habits  of  the  Mantis. 
No  one  has  caught  the  insect  at  work  upon  her  nest  in 
the  silence  of  the  night.  The  link  between  the  artificer 
and  the  work  is  missing,  although  both  are  well  known 
to  the  villager. 
No  matter  :  the  singular  object  exists  ;  it  catches  the 
eye,  it  attracts  attention.  It  must  therefore  be  good  for 
something  ;  it  must  possess  virtue  of  some  kind.  So  in 
all  ages  have  the  simple  reasoned,  in  the  child-like  hope 
of  finding  in  the  unfamiliar  an  alleviation  of  their  sorrows. 
By  general  agreement  the  rural  pharmacopoeia  of 
Provence  pronounces  the  tigno  to  be  the  best  of 
remedies  against  chilblains.  The  method  of  employ- 
ment is  of  the  simplest.  The  nest  is  cut  in  two,  squeezed, 
and  the  affected  part  is  rubbed  with  the  cut  surface  as 
100    SOCIAL  LITE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
the  juices  flow  from  it.  This  specific,  I  am  told,  is 
sovereign.  All  sufferers  from  blue  and  swollen  fingers 
should  without  fail,  according  to  traditional  usage,  have 
recourse  to  the  tigno. 
Is  it  really  efficacious  ?  Despite  the  general  belief,  I 
venture  to  doubt  it,  after  fruitless  experiments  on  my 
own  fingers  and  those  of  other  members  of  my  household 
during  the  winter  of  1895,  when  the  severe  and  persistent 
cold  produced  an  abundant  crop  of  chilblains.  None 
of  us,  treated  with  the  celebrated  unguent,  observed  the 
swelling  to  diminish  ;  none  of  us  found  that  the  pain 
and  discomfort  was  in  the  least  assuaged  by  the  sticky 
varnish  formed  by  the  juices  of  the  crushed  tigno.  It 
is  not  easy  to  believe  that  others  are  more  successful, 
but  the  popular  renown  of  the  specific  survives  in  spite 
of  all,  probably  thanks  to  a  simple  accident  of  identity 
between  the  name  of  the  remedy  and  that  of  the 
infirmity  :  the  Provencal  for  "  chilblain "  is  tigno. 
From  the  moment  when  the  chilblain  and  the  nest  of 
the  Mantis  were  known  by  the  same  name  were  not 
the  virtues  of  the  latter  obvious  ?  So  are  reputations 
created. 
In  my  own  village,  and  doubtless  to  some  extent 
throughout  the  Midi,  the  tigno — the  nest  of  the  Mantis, 
not  the  chilblain — is  also  reputed  as  a  marvellous  cure 
for  toothache.  It  is  enough  to  carry  it  upon  the  person 
to  be  free  of  that  lamentable  affection.  Women  wise  in 
such  matters  gather  them  beneath  a  propitious  moon, 
and  preserve  them  piously  in  some  corner  of  the  clothes- 
press  or  wardrobe.  They  sew  them  in  the  lining  of  the 
pocket,  lest  they  should  be  pulled  out  with  the  hand- 
kerchief and  lost  ;   they  will  jjrant  tlie  loan  of  them  to  a 
THE  MANTIS.-THE  NEST  101 
neighbour  tormented  by  some  refractory  molar.  "  Lend 
me  thy  tigno  :  I  am  suffering  martyrdom  I"  begs  the 
owner  of  a  swollen  face. — "  Don't  on  any  account  lose 
it  1 "  says  the  lender  :  "  I  haven't  another,  and  we  aren't 
at  the  right  time  of  moon  I  " 
We  will  not  laugh  at  the  credulous  victim  ;  many  a 
remedy  triumphantly  puffed  on  the  latter  pages  of  the 
newspapers  and  magazines  is  no  more  effectual.  More- 
over, this  rural  simplicit3;  is  surpassed  by  certain  old 
books  which  form  the  tomb  of  the  science  of  a  past  age. 
An  English  naturalist  of  the  sixteenth  century,  the 
well-known  physician,  Thomas  Moffat,  informs  us  that 
children  lost  in  the  country  would  inquire  their  way 
of  the  Mantis.  The  insect  consulted  would  extend  a 
limb,  indicating  the  direction  to  be  taken,  and,  says  the 
author,  scarcely  ever  was  the  insect  mistaken.  This 
pretty  story  is  told  in  Latin,  with  an  adorable  siinplicity. 