CHAPTER    VIII 
THE  GOLDEN   GARDENER. — ITS   NUTRIMENT 
In  writing  the  first  lines  of  this  chapter  I  am  reminded 
of  the  slaughter-pens  of  Chicago  ;  of  those  horrible 
meat  factories  which  in  the  course  of  the  year  cut  up 
one  million  and  eighty  thousand  bullocks  and  seventeen 
hundred  thousand  swine,  which  enter  a  train  of 
machinery  alive  and  issue  transformed  into  cans  of 
preserved  meat,  sausages,  lard,  and  rolled  hams.  I  am 
reminded  of  these  establishments  because  the  beetle  I 
am  about  to  speak  of  will  show  us  a  compatible 
celerity  of  butchery. 
In  a  spacious,  glazed  insectorium  I  have  twenty- 
five  Carabi  aurati.  At  present  they  are  motionless, 
lying  beneath  a  piece  of  board  which  I  gave  them 
for  shelter.  Their  bellies  cooled  by  the  sand,  their 
backs  warmed  by  the  board,  which  is  visited  by  the 
sun,  they  slumber  and  digest  their  food.  By  good 
luck  I  chance  upon  a  procession  of  pine-caterpillars,  in 
process  of  descending:;  from  their  tree  in  search  of  a 
spot  suitable  for  burial,  the  prelude  to  the  phase  of  the 
subterranean  chrysalis.  Here  is  an  excellent  flock  for 
the  slaughter-house  of  the  Carabi, 
I  capture  them  and   place  them  in  the   insectorium. 
109 
THE  GOLDEN  GABDENEB  103 
The  procession  is  quickly  re-formed ;  the  caterpillars, 
to  the  number  of  perhaps  a  hundred  and  fifty,  move 
forward  in  an  undulating  line.  They  pass  near  the 
piece  of  board,  one  following  the  other  like  the  pigs 
at  Chicago.  The  moment  is  propitious.  I  cry  Havoc  1 
and  let  loose  the  dogs  of  war  :  that  is  to  say,  I  remove 
the  plank. 
The  sleepers  immediately  awake,  scenting  the  abun- 
dant prey.  One  of  them  runs  forward ;  three,  four, 
follow ;  the  whole  assembly  is  aroused  ;  those  who  are 
buried  emerge  ;  the  whole  band  of  cut-throats  falls 
upon  the  passing  flock.  It  is  a  sight  never  to  be  for- 
gotten. The  mandibles  of  the  beetles  are  at  work  in 
all  directions  ;  the  procession  is  attacked  in  the  van,  in 
the  rear,  in  the  centre  ;  the  victims  are  wounded  on 
the  back  or  the  belly  at  random.  The  furry  skins  are 
gaping  with  wounds  ;  their  contents  escape  in  knots 
of  entrails,  bright  green  with  their  aliment,  the  needles 
of  the  pine-tree  ;  the  caterpillars  writhe,  struggling  with 
loop-like  movements,  gripping  the  sand  with  their  feet, 
dribbling  and  gnashing  their  mandibles.  Those  as  yet 
unwounded  are  digging  desperately  in  the  attempt  to 
take  refuge  underground.  Not  one  succeeds.  They 
are  scarcely  half  buried  before  some  beetle  runs  to 
them  and  destroys  them  by  an  eviscerating  wound. 
If  this  massacre  did  not  occur  in  a  dumb  world  we 
should  hear  all  the  horrible  tumult  of  the  slaughter- 
houses of  Chicago.  But  only  the  ear  of  the  mind 
can  hear  the  shrieks  and  lamentations  of  the  evis- 
:erated  victims.  For  myself,  I  possess  this  ear,  and 
am  full  of  remorse  for  having  provoked  such  sufferings. 
Now    the    beetles   are    rummaging   in    all    directions 
104    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
through  the  heap  of  dead  and  dying,  each  tugging 
and  tearing  at  a  morsel  which  he  carries  off  to  swallow 
in  peace,  away  from  the  inquisitive  eyes  of  his  fellows. 
This  mouthful  disposed  of,  another  is  hastily  cut  from 
the  body  of  some  victim,  and  the  process  is  repeated 
so  long  as  there  are  bodies  left.  In  a  few  minutes 
the  procession  is  reduced  to  a  few  shreds  of  still 
palpitating  flesh. 
There  were  a  hundred  and  fifty  caterpillars ;  the 
butchers  were  twenty-five.  This  amounts  to  six  victims 
dispatched  by  each  beetle.  If  the  insect  had  nothing 
to  do  but  to  kill,  like  the  knackers  in  the  meat  factories, 
and  if  the  staff  numbered  a  hundred — a  very  modest 
figure  as  compared  with  the  staff  of  a  lard  or  bacon 
factory — then  the  total  number  of  victims,  in  a  day 
of  ten  hours,  would  be  thirty-six  thousand.  No 
Chicago  "cannery"  ever  rivalled  such  a  result. 
The  speed  of  assassination  is  the  more  remarkable 
when  we  consider  the  difficulties  of  attack.  The 
beetle  has  no  endless  chain  to  seize  its  victim  by  one 
leg,  hoist  it  up,  and  swmg  it  along  to  the  butcher's 
knife  ;  it  has  no  sliding  plank  to  hold  the  victim's 
head  beneath  the  pole-axe  of  the  knacker  ;  it  has  to 
fall  upon  its  prey,  overpower  it,  and  avoid  its  feet 
and  its  mandibles.  Moreover,  the  beetle  eats  its  prey 
on  the  spot  as  it  kills.  What  slaughter  there  would 
be  if  the  insect  confined  itself  to  killing  I 
What  do  we  learn  from  the  slaughter-houses  of 
Chicago  and  the  fate  of  the  beetle's  victims  ?  This  : 
That  the  man  of  elevated  morality  is  so  far  a  very 
rare  exception.  Under  the  skin  of  the  civilised  being 
there    lurks    almost    always    the    ancestor,    the    savage 
THE  GOLDEN  GARDENEB  105 
contemporary  of  the  cave-bear.  True  humanity  does 
not  yet  exist ;  it  is  growing,  little  by  little,  created 
by  the  ferment  of  the  centuries  and  the  dictates  of  con- 
science ;  but  it  progresses  towards  the  highest  with 
heartbreaking  slowness. 
It  was  only  yesterday  that  slavery  finally  disappeared  : 
the  basis  of  the  ancient  social  organism  ;  only  yester- 
day was  it  realised  that  man,  even  though  black,  is 
really  man  and  deserves  to  be  treated  accordingly. 
What  formerly  was  woman?  She  was  what  she  is 
to-day  in  the  East  :  a  gentle  animal  without  a  soul. 
The  question  was  long  discussed  by  the  learned.  The 
great  divine  of  the  seventeenth  century,  Bossuet 
himself,  regarded  woman  as  the  ditninutive  of  man. 
The  proof  was  in  the  origin  of  Eve  :  she  was  the 
superfluous  bone,  the  thirteenth  rib  which  Adam 
possessed  in  the  beginning.  It  has  at  last  been 
admitted  that  woman  possesses  a  soul  like  our  own, 
but  even  superior  in  tenderness  and  devotion.  She 
has  been  allowed  to  educate  herself,  which  she  has 
done  at  least  as  zealously  as  her  coadjutor.  But  the 
law,  that  gloomy  cavern  which  is  still  the  lurking- 
place  of  so  many  barbarities,  continues  to  regard  her 
as  an  incapable  and  a  minor.  The  law  in  turn  will 
finally  surrender  to  the  truth. 
The  abolition  of  slavery  and  the  education  of  woman  : 
these  are  two  enormous  strides  upon  the  path  of 
moral  progress.  Our  descendants  will  go  farther. 
They  will  see,  with  a  lucidity  capable  of  piercing 
every  obstacle,  that  war  is  the  most  hopeless  of  aU 
absurdities.  That  our  conquerors,  victors  of  battles 
and    destroyers    of    nations,    are    detestable    scourges ; 
106    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE  INSECT   WORLD 
that  a  clasp  of  the  hand  is  preferable  to  a  rifle-shot ; 
that  the  happiest  people  is  not  that  which  possesses 
the  largest  battalions,  but  that  which  labours  in  peace 
and  produces  abundantly  ;  and  that  the  amenities  of 
existence  do  not  necessitate  the  existence  of  frontiers, 
beyond  which  we  meet  with  all  the  annoyances  of 
the  custom-house,  with  its  officials  who  search  our 
pockets  and  rifle  our  luggage. 
Our  descendants  will  see  this  and  many  other 
marvels  which  to-day  are  extravagant  dreams.  To 
what  ideal  height  will  the  process  of  evolution  lead 
mankind  ?  To  no  very  magnificent  height,  it  is  to  be 
feared.  We  are  afflicted  by  an  indelible  ta-'nt,  a 
kind  of  original  sin,  if  we  may  call  sin  a  state  of 
things  with  which  our  will  has  nothing  to  do.  We 
are  made  after  a  certain  pattern  and  we  can  do 
nothing  to  change  ourselves.  We  are  marked  with 
the  mark  of  the  beast,  the  taint  of  the  belly,  the 
inexhaustible  source  of  bestiality. 
The  intestine  rules  the  world.  In  the  midst  of 
our  most  serious  affairs  there  intrudes  the  imperious 
question  of  bread  and  butter.  So  long  as  there  are 
stomachs  to  digest— and  as  yet  we  are  unable  to 
dispense  with  them — we  must  find  the  wherewithal 
to  fill  them,  and  the  powerful  will  live  by  the  suffer- 
ings of  the  weak.  Life  is  a  void  that  only  death  can 
fill.  Hence  the  endless  butchery  by  which  man 
nourishes  himself,  no  less  than  beetles  and  other 
creatures ;  hence  the  perpetual  holocausts  which 
make  of  this  earth  a  knacker's  yard,  beside  which 
the  slaughter-houses  of  Chicago  are  as  nothing. 
But  the  feasters  are  legion,  and  the  feast  is  not  abun- 
tHB  GOLDEN  GARDENER  107 
dant  in  proportion.  Those  that  have  not  are  envious  of 
those  that  have ;  the  hungry  bare  their  teeth  at  the 
satisfied.  Then  follows  the  battle  for  the  right  of 
possession.  Man  raises  armies  ;  to  defend  his  harvests, 
his  granaries,  and  his  cellars,  he  resorts  to  warfare. 
When  shall  we  see  the  end  of  it  ?  Alas,  and  many 
times  alas  1  As  long  as  there  are  wolves  in  the  world 
there  must  be  watch-dogs  to  defend  the  flock. 
This  train  of  thought  has  led  us  far  away  from  our 
beetles.  Let  us  return  to  them.  What  was  my  motive 
in  provoking  the  massacre  of  this  peaceful  procession 
of  caterpillars  who  were  on  the  point  of  self-burial 
when  I  gave  them  over  to  the  butchers  ?  Was  it  to 
enjoy  the  spectacle  of  a  frenzied  massacre  ?  By  no 
means  ;  I  have  always  pitied  the  sufferings  of  animals, 
and  the  smallest  life  is  worthy  of  respect.  To  overcome 
this  pity  there  needed  the  exigencies  of  scientific 
research — exigencies  which  are  often  cruel. 
In  this  case  the  subject  of  research  was  the  habits 
of  the  Carabus  auratus,  the  little  vermin-killer  of  our 
gardens,  who  is  therefore  vulgarly  known  as  the  Gardener 
Beetle.  How  far  is  this  title  deserved  ?  What  game 
does  the  Gardener  Beetle  hunt  ?  From  what  vermin 
does  he  ft-ee  our  beds  and  borders  ?  His  dealings  with 
the  procession  of  pine-caterpillars  promise  much.  Let 
us  continue  our  inquiry. 
On  various  occasions  about  the  end  of  April  the 
gardens  afford  me  the  sight  of  such  processions,  some- 
times longer,  sometimes  shorter.  I  capture  them  and 
place  them  in  the  vivarium.  Bloodshed  commences 
the  moment  the  banquet  is  served.  The  caterpillars 
are  eviscerated ;   each  by  a  single  beetle,  or   by  several 
108    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
simultaneously.  In  less  than  fifteen  minutes  the  flock 
is  completely  exterminated.  Nothing  remains  but  a  few 
shapeless  fragments,  which  are  carried  hither  and  thither, 
to  be  consumed  at  leisure  under  the  shelter  of  the  wooden 
board.  One  well-fed  beetle  decamps,  his  booty  in  his 
jaws,  hoping  to  finish  his  feast  in  peace.  He  is  met  by 
companions  who  are  attracted  by  the  morsel  hanging 
from  the  mandibles  of  the  fugitive,  and  audaciously 
attempt  to  rob  him.  First  two,  then  three,  they  all 
endeavour  to  deprive  the  legitimate  owner  of  his  prize. 
Each  seizes  the  fragment,  tugs  at  it,  commences  to  swallow 
it  without  further  ado.  There  is  no  actual  battle ;  no 
violent  assaults,  as  in  the  case  of  dogs  disputing  a  bone. 
Their  efforts  are  confined  to  the  attempted  theft.  If  the 
legitimate  owner  retains  his  hold  they  consume  his  booty 
in  common,  mandibles  to  mandibles,  until  the  fragment 
is  torn  or  bitten  through,  and  each  retires  with  his 
mouthful. 
As  I  found  to  my  cost  in  bygone  experiments,  the 
pine-caterpillar  wields  a  violently  corrosive  poison,  which 
produces  a  painful  rash  upon  the  hands.  It  must  there- 
fore, one  would  think,  form  a  somewhat  highly  seasoned 
diet.  The  beetles,  however,  delight  in  it.  No  matter  how 
many  flocks  I  provide  them  with,  they  are  all  consumed. 
But  no  one,  that  I  know  of,  has  ever  found  the  Golden 
Gardener  and  its  larva  in  the  silken  cocoons  of  the 
Bombyx.  I  do  not  expect  ever  to  make  such  a  dis- 
covery. These  cocoons  are  inhabited  only  in  winter, 
when  the  Gardener  is  indifferent  to  food,  and  lies 
torpid  in  the  earth.  In  April,  however,  when  the  pro- 
cessions  of  larvae  are  seeking  a  suitable  site  for  burial 
and  metamorphosis,  the  Gardener  should  profit  largely 
THE  GOLDEN  GARDENER  109 
by  its  good  fortune  should  it  by  any  chance  encounter 
them. 
The  furry  nature  of  the  victim  does  not  in  the  least 
incommode  the  beetle  ;  but  the  hairiest  of  all  our  cater- 
pillars, the  Hedgehog  Caterpillar,  with  its  undulating 
mane,  partly  red  and  partly  black,  does  seem  to  be  too 
much  for  the  beetle.  Day  after  day  it  wanders  about 
the  vivarium  in  company  with  the  assassins.  The  latter 
apparently  ignore  its  presence.  From  time  to  time  one  of 
them  will  halt,  stroll  round  the  hairy  creature,  examine 
it,  and  try  to  penetrate  the  tangled  fleece.  Immediately 
repulsed  by  the  long,  dense  palisade  of  hairs,  he  retires 
without  inflicling  a  wound,  and  the  caterpillar  proceeds 
upon  its  way  with  undulating  mane,  in  pride  and  security. 
But  this  state  of  things  cannot  last.  In  a  hungry 
moment,  emboldened  moreover  by  the  presence  of  his 
fellows,  the  cowardly  creature  decides  upon  a  serious 
attack.  There  are  four  of  them ;  they  industriously 
attack  the  caterpillar,  which  finally  succumbs,  assaulted 
before  and  behind.  It  is  eviscerated  and  swallowed  as 
greedily  as  though  it  were  a  defenceless  grub. 
According  to  the  hazard  of  discovery,  I  provision  my 
menagerie  with  various  caterpillars,  some  smooth  and 
others  hairy.  All  are  accepted  with  the  utmost  eagerness, 
so  long  as  they  are  of  average  size  as  compared  with  the 
beetles  themselves.  If  too  small  they  are  despised,  as 
they  would  not  yield  a  sufficient  mouthful.  If  they  are 
too  large  the  beetle  is  unable  to  handle  them.  The 
caterpillars  of  the  Sphinx  moth  and  the  Great  Peacock 
moth,  for  example,  would  fall  an  easy  prey  to  the  beetle, 
were  it  not  that  at  the  first  bite  of  the  assailant  the  intended 
victim,  by  a  contortion  of  its  powerful  flanks,  sends  the 
110    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
former  flying.  After  several  attacks,  all  of  which  end  by 
the  beetle  being  flung  back  to  some  considerable  dis- 
tance, the  insect  regretfully  abandons  his  prey.  I  have 
kept  two  strong  and  lively  caterpillars  for  a  fortnight  in 
the  cage  of  my  golden  beetles,  and  nothing  more  serious 
occurred.  The  trick  of  the  suddenly  extended  posterior 
was  too  much  for  the  ferocious  mandibles. 
The  chief  utility  of  the  Golden  Gardener  lies  in  its 
extermination  of  all  caterpillars  that  are  not  too  powerful 
to  attack.  It  has  one  limitation,  however  :  it  is  not  a 
climber.  It  hunts  on  the  ground  ;  never  in  the  foliage 
overhead.  I  have  never  seen  it  exploring  the  twigs  of 
even  the  smallest  of  bushes.  When  caged  it  pays  no 
attention  to  the  most  enticing  caterpillars  if  the  latter 
take  refuge  in  a  tuft  of  thyme,  at  a  few  inches  above  the 
ground.  This  is  a  great  pity.  If  only  the  beetle  could 
climb  how  rapidly  three  or  four  would  rid  our  cabbages 
of  that  grievous  pest,  the  larva  of  the  white  cabbage 
butterfly  I  Alas  i  the  best  have  always  some  failing, 
some  vice. 
To  exterminate  caterpillars  :  that  is  the  true  vocation  of 
the  Golden  Gardener.  It  is  annoying  that  it  can  give 
us  but  little  or  no  assistance  in  ridding  us  of  another 
plague  of  the  kitchen-garden  :  the  snail.  The  slime  of  the 
snail  is  offensive  to  the  beetle  ;  it  is  safe  from  the  latter 
unless  crippled,  half  crushed,  or  projecting  from  the  shell. 
Its  relatives,  however,  do  not  share  this  dislike.  The 
horny  Procrustes,  the  great  Scarabicus,  entirely  black 
and  larger  than  the  Carabus,  attacks  the  snail  most 
valiantly,  and  empties  its  shell  to  the  bottom,  in  spite  of 
the  desperate  secretion  of  slime.  It  is  a  pity  that  the 
Procrustes  is  not  more  frequently  found  in  our  gardens ; 
it  would  be  an  excellent  gardener's  assistant. 