CHAPTER    IV 
THE  CIGALE.      THE   EGGS  AND  THEIR   HATCHING 
The  Cigale  confides  its  eggs  to  dry,  slender  twigs.  All 
the  branches  examined  by  Reaumur  which  bore  such 
eggs  were  branches  of  the  mulberry  :  a  proof  that  the 
person  entrusted  with  the  search  for  these  eggs  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  Avignon  did  not  bring  much  variety 
to  his  quest,  I  find  these  eggs  not  only  on  the  mulberry- 
tree,  but  on  the  peach,  the  cherry,  the  willow,  the 
Japanese  privet,  and  other  trees.  But  these  are  excep- 
tions ;  what  the  Cigale  really  prefers  is  a  slender  twig 
of  a  thickness  varying  from  that  of  a  straw  to  that  of  a 
pencil.  It  should  have  a  thin  woody  layer  and  plenty  of 
pith.  If  these  conditions  are  fulfilled  the  species  matters 
little.  I  should  pass  in  review  all  the  serai-ligneous  plants 
of  the  country  were  I  to  catalogue  the  various  supports 
which  are  utilised  by  the  gravid  female. 
Its  chosen  twig  never  lies  along  the  ground  ;  it  is 
always  in  a  more  or  less  vertical  position.  It  is  usually 
growing  in  its  natural  position,  but  is  sometimes  de- 
tached ;  in  the  latter  case  it  will  by  chance  have  fallen 
so  that  it  retains  its  upright  position.  The  insect  prefers 
a  long,  smooth,  regular  twig  which  can  receive  the  whole 
of   its  eggs.    The   best   batches  of   eggs  which    I   have 
46    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
found  have  been  laid  upon  twigs  of  the  Spartium 
junceiim,  which  are  like  straws  stuffed  with  pith,  and 
especially  on  the  upper  twigs  of  the  Asphodelus  cerasiferns, 
which  rises  nearly  a  yard  from  the  ground  before 
ramifying. 
It  is  essential  that  the  support,  no  matter  what  its 
nature,  should  be  dead  and  perfectly  dry. 
The  first  operation  performed  by  the  Cigale  consists  in 
making  a  series  of  slight  lacerations,  such  as  one  might 
make  with  the  point  of  a  pin,  which,  if  plunged  obliquely 
downwards  into  the  twig,  would  tear  the  woody  fibres 
and  would  compress  them  so  as  to  form  a  slight  pro- 
tuberance. 
If  the  twig  is  irregular  in  shape,  or  if  several  Cigales 
have  been  working  successively  at  the  same  point,  the 
distribution  of  the  punctures  is  confused ;  the  eye  wanders, 
incapable  of  recognising  the  order  of  their  succession  or 
the  work  of  the  individual.  One  characteristic  is  always 
present,  namely,  the  oblique  direction  of  the  woody 
fragment  which  is  raised  by  the  perforation,  showing 
that  the  Cigale  always  works  in  an  upright  position  and 
plunges  its  rostrum  downwards  in  the  direction  of  the 
twig. 
If  the  twig  is  regular,  smooth,  and  conveniently  long 
the  perforations  are  almost  equidistant  and  lie  very 
nearly  in  a  straight  line.  Their  number  varies  ;  it  is 
small  when  the  mother,  disturbed  in  her  operations, 
has  flown  away  to  continue  her  work  elsewhere ;  but 
they  number  thirty  or  forty,  more  or  less,  when  they 
contain  the  whole  of  her  eggs. 
Each  one  of  the  perforations  is  the  entrance  to  an 
oblique  tunnel,  which  is  bored  in  the  medullary  sheath 
THE   CIGALE  47 
of  the  twig.  The  aperture  is  not  closed,  except  by  the 
bunch  of  woody  fibres,  which,  parted  at  the  moment 
when  the  eggs  are  laid,  recover  themselves  when  the 
double  saw  of  the  oviduct  is  removed.  Sometimes,  but 
by  no  means  always,  you  may  see  between  the  fibres  a 
tiny  glistening  patch  like  a  touch  of  dried  white  of  egg. 
This  is  only  an  insignificant  trace  of  some  albuminous 
secretion  accompanying  the  egg  or  facilitating  the  work 
of  the  double  saw  of  the  oviduct. 
Immediately  below  the  aperture  of  the  perforation  is 
the  egg  chamber :  a  short,  tunnel-shaped  cavity  which 
occupies  almost  the  whole  distance  between  one  opening 
and  that  lying  below  it.  Sometimes  the  separating  parti- 
tion is  lacking,  and  the  various  chambers  run  into  one 
another,  so  that  the  eggs,  although  introduced  by  the 
various  apertures,  are  arranged  in  an  uninterrupted  row. 
This  arrangement,  however,  is  not  the  most  usual. 
The  contents  of  the  chambers  vary  greatly.  I  find  in 
each  from  six  to  fifteen  eggs.  The  average  is  ten.  The 
total  number  of  chambers  varying  from  thirty  to  forty, 
it  follows  that  the  Cigale  lays  from  three  to  four  hundred 
eggs.  Reaumur  arrived  at  the  same  figures  from  an 
examination  of  the  ovaries. 
This  is  truly  a  fine  family,  capable  by  sheer  force  of 
numbers  of  surviving  the  most  serious  dangers.  I  do 
not  see  that  the  adult  Cigale  is  exposed  to  greater  dangers 
than  any  other  insect :  its  eye  is  vigilant,  its  departure 
sudden,  and  its  flight  rapid  ;  and  it  inhabits  heights  at 
which  the  prowling  brigands  of  the  turf  are  not  to  be 
feared.  The  sparrow,  it  is  true,  will  greedily  devour  it. 
From  time  to  time  he  will  deliberately  and  meditatively 
descend  upon  the  plane-trees  from  the  neighbouring  roof 
48    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
and  snatch  up  the  singer,  who  squeaks  despairingly.  A 
few  blows  of  the  beak  and  the  Cigale  is  cut  into  quarters, 
delicious  morsels  for  the  nestlings.  But  how  often  does 
the  bird  return  without  his  prey  !  The  Cigale,  foreseeing 
his  attack,  empties  its  intestine  in  the  eyes  of  its  assailant 
and  flies  away. 
But  the  Cigale  has  a  far  more  terrible  enemy  than  the 
sparrow.  This  is  the  green  grasshopper.  It  is  late,  and 
the  Cigales  are  silent.  Drowsy  with  light  and  heat,  they 
have  exhausted  themselves  in  producing  their  symphonies 
all  day  long.  Night  has  come,  and  with  it  repose  ;  but  a 
repose  frequently  troubled.  In  the  thick  foliage  of  the 
plane-trees  there  is  a  sudden  sound  like  a  cry  of  anguish, 
short  and  strident.  It  is  the  despairing  lamentation  of 
the  Cigale  surprised  in  the  silence  by  the  grasshopper, 
that  ardent  hunter  of  the  night,  which  leaps  upon  the 
Cigale,  seizes  it  by  the  flank,  tears  it  open,  and  devours 
the  contents  of  the  stomach.  After  the  orgy  of  music 
comes  night  and  assassination. 
I  obtained  an  insight  into  this  tragedy  in  the  following 
manner  :  I  was  walking  up  and  down  before  my  door  at 
daybreak  when  something  fell  from  the  neighbouring 
plane-tree  uttering  shrill  squeaks.  I  ran  to  see  what  it 
was.  I  found  a  green  grasshopper  eviscerating  a  strug- 
gling Cigale.  In  vain  did  the  latter  squeak  and  gesticu- 
late ;  the  other  never  loosed  its  hold,  but  plunged  its 
head  into  the  entrails  of  the  victim  and  removed  them 
by  little  mouthfuls. 
This  was  instructive.  The  attack  was  delivered  high 
up  above  my  head,  in  the  early  morning,  while  the  Cigale 
was  resting  ;  and  the  struggles  of  the  unfortunate  creature 
as  it  was  dissected  alive  had  resulted  in  the  fall  of  assailant 
1.  THE    CK.ALK    LAYING    HFR    rt.(,S 
2.  THE    (iKEEX     GRASSHOPPER,    THE     FALSE   CIGALE    OF   THE    NORTH, 
UEVOURING  THE   TRUE    CIGALE,  A    DWELLER   IN'   THE   SOUTH. 
To  face  p.  48. 
THE   CIGALE  49 
and  assailed  together.     Since  then  I  have  often  been  the 
witness  of  similar  assassinations. 
I  have  even  seen  the  grasshopper,  full  of  audacity, 
launch  itself  in  pursuit  of  the  Cigale,  who  fled  in 
terror.  So  the  sparrow-hawk  pursues  the  skylark  in  the 
open  sky.  But  the  bird  of  prey  is  less  ferocious  than 
the  insect ;  it  pursues  a  creature  smaller  than  itself.  The 
locust,  on  the  contrary,  assails  a  colossus,  far  larger  and 
far  more  vigorous  than  its  enemy ;  yet  the  result  is  a 
foregone  conclusion,  in  spite  of  this  disproportion.  With 
its  powerful  mandibles,  like  pincers  of  steel,  the  grass- 
hopper rarely  fails  to  eviscerate  its  captive,  which,  being 
weaponless,  can  only  shriek  and  struggle. 
The  Cigale  is  an  easy  prey  during  its  hours  of  som- 
nolence. Every  Cigale  encountered  by  the  ferocious 
grasshopper  on  its  nocturnal  round  must  miserably 
perish.  Thus  are  explained  those  sudden  squeaks  of 
anguish  which  are  sometimes  heard  in  the  boughs  during 
the  hours  of  the  night  and  early  morning,  although  the 
cymbals  have  long  been  silent.  The  sea-green  bandit 
has  fallen  upon  some  slumbering  Cigale.  When  I 
wished  to  rear  some  green  grasshoppers  I  had  not  far  to 
seek  for  the  diet  of  my  pensioners  ;  I  fed  them  on  Cigales, 
of  which  enormous  numbers  were  consumed  in  my 
breeding-cages.  It  is  therefore  an  established  fact  that 
the  green  grasshopper,  the  false  Cigale  of  the  North,  will 
eagerly  devour  the  true  Cigale,  the  inhabitant  of  the  Midi. 
But  it  is  neither  the  sparrow  nor  the  green  grasshopper 
that  has  forced  the  Cigale  to  produce  such  a  vast  number 
of  offspring.  The  real  danger  is  elsewhere,  as  we  shall 
see.  The  risk  is  enormous  at  the  moment  of  hatching, 
and  also  when  the  egg  is  laid. 
6 
50 
SOCIAL   LIFE   IN   THE   INSECT  WORLD 
Two  or  three  weeks  after  its  escape  from  the  earth- 
that  is,  about  the  middle  of  July— the  Cigale  begins  to 
lay.     In  order  to  observe  the  process  without  trusting  too 
much  to  chance,  I  took  certain  precautions  which  would, 
I  felt  sure,  prove  successful.     The  dry  Asphodelus  is  the 
support  preferred  by  the  insect,  as  previous  observations 
had  assured  me.     It  was  also  the  plant  which  best  lent 
itself  to  my  experiments,  on  account  of  its  long,  smooth 
stems.     Now,  during  the  first  years  of  my  residence  in 
the  South  I  replaced  the  thistles  in  my  paddock  by  other 
native   plants   of   a   less   stubborn   and   prickly   species. 
Among  the  new  occupants  was  the  asphodel.     This  was 
precisely  what  I  needed  for  my  experiments.     1  left  the 
dry  stems  of  the  preceding  year  in  place,  and  when  the 
breeding  season  arrived  I  inspected  them  daily. 
I  had  not  long  to  wait.  As  early  as  July  15th  I 
found  as  many  Cigales  as  I  could  wish  on  the  stems  ot 
the  asphodel,  all  in  process  of  laying.  The  gravid  female 
is  always  solitary.  Each  mother  has  her  twig  to  herself, 
and  is  in  no  danger  of  being  disturbed  during  the  delicate 
operation  of  laying.  When  the  first  occupant  has  departed 
another  may  take  her  place,  and  so  on  indefinitely.  There 
is  abundance  of  room  for  all ;  but  each  prefers  to  be  alone 
as  her  turn  arrives.  There  is,  however,  no  unpleasant- 
ness of  any  kind  ;  everything  passes  most  peacefully.  If 
a  female  Cigale  finds  a  place  which  has  been  already 
taken  she  flies  away  and  seeks  another  twig  directly  she 
discovers  her  mistake. 
The  gravid  female  always  retains  an  upright  position  at 
this  time,  as  indeed  she  does  at  other  times.  She  is  so 
absorbed  in  her  task  that  she  may  readily  be  watched, 
even  through  a  magnifying  glass.     The  ovipositor,  which 
THE  CIGALE  51 
is  about  four-tenths  of  an  inch  in  length,  is  plunged 
obliquely  and  up  to  the  hilt  into  the  twig.  So  perfect  is 
the  tool  that  the  operation  is  by  no  means  troublesome. 
We  see  the  Cigale  tremble  slightly,  dilating  and  con- 
tracting the  extremity  of  the  abdomen  in  frequent  pal- 
pitations. This  is  all  that  can  be  seen.  The  boring 
instrument,  consisting  of  a  double  saw,  alternately  rises 
and  sinks  in  the  rind  of  the  twig  with  a  gentle,  almost 
imperceptible  movement.  Nothing  in  particular  occurs 
during  the  process  of  laying  the  eggs.  The  insect  is 
motionless,  and  hardly  ten  minutes  elapse  between  the 
first  cut  of  the  ovipositor  and  the  filling  of  the  egg- 
chamber  with  eggs. 
The  ovipositor  is  then  withdrawn  with  methodical 
deliberation,  in  order  that  it  may  not  be  strained  or  bent. 
The  egg-chamber  closes  of  its  own  accord  as  the  woody 
fibres  which  have  been  displaced  return  to  their  position, 
and  the  Cigale  climbs  a  little  higher,  moving  upwards  in  a 
straight  line,  by  about  the  length  of  its  ovipositor.  It  then 
makes  another  puncture  and  a  fresh  chamber  for  another 
ten  or  twelve  eggs.  In  this  way  it  scales  the  twig  from 
bottom  to  top. 
These  facts  being  understood,  we  are  able  to  explain 
the  remarkable  arrangement  of  the  eggs.  The  openings 
in  the  rind  of  the  twig  are  practically  equidistant,  since 
each  time  the  Cigale  moves  upward  it  is  by  a  given  length, 
namely,  that  of  the  ovipositor.  Very  rapid  in  flight,  she  is 
a  very  idle  walker.  At  the  most  you  may  see  her,  on  the 
living  twig  from  which  she  is  drinking,  moving  at  a  slow, 
almost  solemn  pace,  to  gain  a  more  sunny  point  close  at 
hand.  On  the  dry  twig  in  which  she  deposits  her  eg^^s 
she  observes  the  same  formal  habits,  and  even  exaggerates 
52    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
them,  in  view  of  the  importance  of  the  operation.  She 
moves  as  little  as  possible,  just  so  far  as  she  must  in  order 
to  avoid  running  two  adjacent  egg-chambers  into  one. 
The  extent  of  each  movement  upwards  is  approximately 
determined  by  the  depth  of  the  perforation. 
The  apertures  are  arranged  in  a  straight  line  when 
their  number  is  not  very  large.  Why,  indeed,  should 
the  insect  wander  to  right  or  to  left  upon  a  twig  which 
presents  the  same  surface  all  over  ?  A  lover  of  the 
sun,  she  chooses  that  side  of  the  twig  which  is  most 
exposed  to  it.  So  long  as  she  feels  the  heat,  her 
supreme  joy,  upon  her  back,  she  will  take  good  care 
not  to  change  the  position  which  she  finds  so  delight- 
ful for  another  in  which  the  sun  would  fall  upon  her 
less  directly. 
The  process  of  depositing  the  eggs  is  a  lengthy  one 
when  it  is  carried  out  entirely  on  the  same  twig. 
Counting  ten  minutes  for  each  egg-chamber,  the  full 
series  of  forty  would  represent  a  period  of  six  or  seven 
hours.  The  sun  will  of  course  move  through  a  con- 
siderable distance  before  the  Cigale  can  finish  her 
work.  In  such  cases  the  series  of  apertures  follows  a 
spiral  curve.  The  insect  turns  round  the  stalk  as  the 
sun  turns. 
Very  often  as  the  Cigale  is  absorbed  in  her  maternal 
task  a  diminutive  fly,  also  full  of  eggs,  busily 
exterminates  the  Cigale's  eggs   as   fast  as  they  are  laid. 
This  insect  was  known  to  Reaumur.  In  nearly  all 
the  twigs  examined  he  found  its  grub,  the  cause  of  a 
misunderstanding  at  the  beginning  of  his  researches. 
But  he  did  not,  could  not  see  the  audacious  insect 
at   work.     It   is    one  of  the  Chalcididae,  about  one-fitth 
toE  CiGALB  63 
or  one-sixth  of  an  inch  in  length  ;  entirely  black,  with 
knotty  antennae,  which  are  slightly  thicker  towards 
their  extremities.  The  unsheathed  ovipositor  is  implanted 
in  the  under  portion  of  the  abdomen,  about  the 
middle,  and  at  right  angles  to  the  axis  of  the  body, 
as  in  the  case  of  the  Leucospis,  the  pest  of  the  apiary. 
Not  having  taken  the  precaution  to  capture  it,  I  do 
not  know  what  name  the  entomologists  have  bestowed 
upon  it,  or  even  if  this  dwarf  exterminator  of  the 
Cigale  has  as  yet  been  catalogued.  What  I  am 
familiar  with  is  its  calm  temerity,  its  impudent 
audacity  in  the  presence  of  the  colossus  who 
could  crush  it  with  a  foot.  I  have  seen  as  many 
as  three  at  once  exploiting  the  unfortunate  female. 
They  keep  close  behind  the  Cigale,  working  busily 
with  their  probes,  or  waiting  until  their  victim  deposits 
her  eggs. 
The  Cigale  fills  one  of  her  egg-chambers  and  clii^ibs 
a  little  higher  in  order  to  bore  another  hole.  One  of 
the  bandits  runs  to  the  abandoned  station,  and  there, 
almost  under  the  claws  of  the  giant,  and  without  the 
least  nervousness,  as  if  it  were  accomplishing  some 
meritorious  action,  it  unsheathes  its  probe  and  thrusts 
it  into  the  column  of  eggs,  not  by  the  open  aperture, 
which  is  bristling  with  broken  fibres,  but  by  a  lateral 
fissure.  The  probes  works  slowly,  as  the  wood  is 
almost  intact.  The  Cigale  has  time  to  fill  the  adjacent 
chamber. 
As  soon  as  she  has  finished  one  of  these  midges, 
the  very  same  that  has  been  performing  its  task  below 
her,  replaces  her  and  introduces  its  disastrous  egg. 
By  the  time  the  Cigale  departs,  her  ovaries  empty,  the 
54    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
majority  of  the  egg-chambers  have  thus  received  the 
ahen  egg  which  will  work  the  destruction  of  their 
contents.  A  small,  quick-hatching  grub,  richly 
nourished  on  a  dozen  eggs,  will  replace  the  family  of 
the  Cigale. 
The  experience  of  centuries  has  taught  the  Cigale 
nothing.  With  her  excellent  eyesight  she  must  be 
able  to  perceive  these  terrible  sappers  as  they  hover 
about  her,  meditating  their  crime.  Too  peaceable 
giantess  !  if  you  see  them  why  do  you  not  seize  them 
in  your  talons,  crush  the  pigmies  at  their  work,  so 
that  you  may  proceed  with  your  travail  in  security  ? 
But  no,  you  will  leave  them  untouched  ;  you  cannot 
modify  your  instincts,  even  to  alleviate  your  maternal 
misfortunes. 
The  eggs  of  the  common  Cigale  are  of  a  shining 
ivory  white.  Conical  at  the  ends,  and  elongated  in 
form,  they  might  be  compared  in  shape  to  the  weaver's 
shuttle.  Their  length  is  about  one-tenth  of  an  inch, 
their  diameter  about  one-fiftieth.  They  are  packed  in 
a  row,  slightly  overlapping  one  another.  The  eggs  of 
the  Cacan  are  slightly  smaller,  and  are  assembled  in 
regular  groups  which  remind  one  of  microscopical 
bundles  of  cigars.  We  will  consider  the  eggs  of  the 
common  Cigale  to  the  exclusion  of  the  others,  as 
their  history  is  the  history  of  all. 
September  is  not  yet  over  when  the  shining  white 
as  of  ivory  gives  way  to  the  yellow  hue  of  cheese. 
During  the  first  days  of  October  you  may  see,  at  the 
forward  end  of  the  egg,  two  tiny  points  of  chestnut 
brown,  which  are  the  eyes  of  the  embryo  in  formation* 
These    two   shining   eyes,   which   almost   seem   to   gaze 
THE  CIGALE  S5 
at  one,  and  the  cone-shaped  head  of  the  egg,  give  it 
the  look  of  a  tiny  fish  without  fins — a  fish  for  whom 
half  a  nut-shell  would  make  a  capacious  aquarium. 
About  the  same  time  I  notice  frequently,  on  the 
asphodels  in  the  paddock  and  on  those  of  the  neigh- 
bouring hills,  certain  indications  that  the  eggs  have 
recently  hatched  out.  There  are  certain  cast-off  articles 
of  clothing,  certain  rags  and  tatters,  left  on  the 
threshold  of  the  egg-chamber  by  the  new-born  grubs 
as  they  leave  it  and  hurry  in  search  of  a  new  lodging. 
We  shall  see  in   a   moment   what  these  vestiges  mean. 
But  in  spite  of  my  visits,  which  were  so  assiduous 
as  to  deserve  success,  I  had  never  contrived  to  see 
the  young  Cigales  emerge  from  their  egg-chambers. 
My  domestic  researches  had  been  pursued  in  vain. 
Two  years  running  I  had  collected,  in  boxes,  tubes, 
and  bottles,  a  hundred  twigs  of  every  kind  which 
were  peopled  by  the  eggs  of  the  Cigale  ;  but  not  one 
had  shown  me  what  I  so  desired  to  witness  :  the  issue 
of  the  new-born  Cigales. 
Reaumur  experienced  the  same  disappointment.  He 
tells  us  how  all  the  eggs  supplied  by  his  friends  were 
abortive,  even  when  he  placed  them  in  a  glass  tube 
thrust  under  his  armpit,  in  order  to  keep  them  at  a 
high  temperature.  No,  venerable  master !  neither  the 
temperate  shelter  of  our  studies  and  laboratories,  nor 
the  incubating  warmth  of  our  bodies  is  sufficient  here  ; 
we  need  the  supreme  stimulant,  the  kiss  of  the  sun  ; 
after  the  cool  of  the  mornings,  which  are  already 
sharp,  the  sudden  blaze  of  the  superb  autumn  weather, 
the  last  endearments  of  summer. 
It    was    under   such    circumstances,   when   a   blazing 
56    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
sun  followed  a  cold  night,  that  I  found  the  signs  of 
completed  incubation  ;  but  I  always  came  too  late  ; 
the  young  Cigales  had  departed.  At  most  I  sometimes 
found  one  hanging  by  a  thread  to  its  natal  stem  and 
struggling  in  the  air.  I  supposed  it  to  be  caught  in 
a  thread  of  gossamer,  or  some  shred  of  cobweb. 
At  last,  on  the  27th  of  October,  despairing  of  success,  I 
gathered  some  asphodels  from  the  orchard,  and  the 
armful  of  dry  twigs  in  which  the  Cigales  had  laid  their 
eggs  was  taken  up  to  my  study.  Before  giving  up  all 
hope  I  proposed  once  more  to  examine  the  egg-chambers 
and  their  contents.  The  morning  was  cold,  and  the 
first  fire  of  the  season  had  been  lit  in  my  room.  I  placed 
ny  little  bundle  on  a  chair  before  the  fire,  but  without 
any  intention  of  testing  the  effect  of  the  heat  of  the 
flames  upon  the  concealed  eggs.  The  twigs,  which  I 
was  about  to  cut  open,  one  by  one,  were  placed  there  to 
be  within  easy  reach  of  my  hand,  and  for  no  other 
reason. 
Then,  while  I  was  examining  a  split  twig  with  my 
magnifying-glass,  the  phenomenon  which  I  had  given 
up  all  hope  of  observing  took  place  under  my  eyes. 
My  bundle  of  twigs  was  suddenly  alive ;  scores  and 
scores  of  the  young  larvae  were  emerging  from  their 
egg-chambers.  Their  numbers  were  such  that  my 
ambition  as  observer  was  amply  satisfied.  The  eggs 
were  ripe,  on  the  point  of  hatching,  and  the  warmth  of 
the  fire,  bright  and  penetrating,  had  the  effect  of  sun- 
light in  the  open.  I  was  quick  to  profit  by  the  unexpected 
piece  of  good  fortune. 
At  the  orifice  of  the  egg-chamber,  among  the  torn  fibres 
of  the  bark,  a  little  cone-shaped  body  is  visible,  with  two 
l-HE  CIGALS  BT 
black  eye-spots  ;  in  appearance  it  is  precisely  like  the  fore 
portion  of  the  butter-coloured  egg ;  or,  as  I  have  said, 
like  the  fore  portion  of  a  tiny  fish.  You  would  think 
that  an  egg  had  been  somehow  displaced,  had  been 
removed  from  the  bottom  of  the  chamber  to  its  aperture. 
An  egg  to  move  in  this  narrow  passage  I  a  walking  egg  ! 
No,  that  is  impossible;  eggs  "do  not  do  such  things!" 
This  is  some  mistake.  We  will  break  open  the  twig, 
and  the  mystery  is  unveiled.  The  actual  eggs  are  where 
they  always  were,  though  they  are  slightly  disarranged. 
They  are  empty,  reduced  to  the  condition  of  transparent 
skins,  split  wide  open  at  the  upper  end.  From  them 
has  issued  the  singular  organism  whose  most  notable 
characteristics  are  as  follows  : — 
In  its  general  form,  the  configuration  of  the  head  and 
the  great  black  eyes,  the  creature,  still  more  than  the 
egg,  has  the  appearance  of  an  extremely  minute  fish.  A 
simulacrum  of  a  ventral  fin  increases  the  resemblance.  This 
apparent  fin  in  reality  consists  of  the  two  fore-limbs, 
which,  packed  in  a  special  sheath,  are  bent  backwards, 
stretched  out  against  one  another  in  a  straight  line.  Its 
small  degree  of  mobility  must  enable  the  grub  to  escape 
from  the  egg-shell  and,  with  greater  difficulty,  from  the 
woody  tunnel  leading  to  the  open  air.  Moving  outwards 
a  httle  from  the  body,  and  then  moving  back  again,  this 
lever  serves  as  a  means  of  progression,  its  terminal  hooks 
being  already  fairly  strong.  The  four  other  feet  are  still 
covered  by  the  common  envelope,  and  are  absolutely 
inert.  It  is  the  same  with  the  antennae,  which  can 
scarcely  be  seen  through  the  magnifying-glass.  The 
organism  which  has  issued  from  the  egg  is  a  boat-shaped 
body  with  a  fin-shaoed  limb  oointing  backwards  on  the 
58    SOCIAL   LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
ventral  face,  formed  by  the  junction  of  the  two  fore- 
hmbs.  The  sedimentation  of  the  body  is  very  clear, 
especially  on  the  abdomen.  The  whole  body  is  perfectly 
smooth,  without  the  least  suspicion  of  hair. 
What  name  are  we  to  give  to  this  initial  phase  ot  the 
Cigale — a  phase  so  strange,  so  unforeseen,  and  hitherto 
unsuspected  ?  Must  I  amalgamate  some  more  or  less 
appropriate  words  of  Greek  and  fabricate  a  portentous 
nomenclature  ?  No,  for  I  feel  sure  that  barbarous  alien 
phrases  are  only  a  hindrance  to  science.  I  will  call  it 
simply  the  primary  larva,  as  I  have  done  in  the  case  of 
the  Meloides,  the  Leucospis,  and  the  Anthrax. 
The  form  of  the  primary  larva  of  the  Cigale  is  eminently 
adapted  to  its  conditions  and  facilitates  its  escape.  The 
tunnel  in  which  the  egg  is  hatched  is  very  narrow,  leaving 
only  just  room  for  passage.  Moreover,  the  eggs  are  arranged 
in  a  row,  not  end  to  end,  but  partially  overlapping.  The 
larva  escaping  from  the  hinder  ranks  has  to  squeeze  past 
the  empty  shells,  still  in  position,  of  the  eggs  which  have 
already  hatched,  so  that  the  narrowness  of  the  passage  is 
increased  by  the  empty  egg-shells.  Under  these  con- 
ditions the  larva  as  it  will  be  presently,  when  it  has  tern 
its  temporary  wrappings,  would  be  unable  to  effect  the 
difficult  passage.  With  the  encumbrance  of  antennae, 
with  long  limbs  spreading  far  out  from  the  axis  of  the  body, 
with  curved,  pointed  talons  which  hook  themselves  into 
their  medium  of  support,  everything  would  militate  against 
a  prompt  liberation.  The  eggs  in  one  chamber  hatch 
almost  simultaneously.  It  is  therefore  essential  that  the 
first-born  larvae  should  hurry  out  of  their  shelter  as  quickly 
as  possible,  leaving  the  passage  free  for  those  behind  them. 
Hence  the   boat-like   shape,   the   smooth   hairless   body 
THE  CIGALE  69 
without  projections,  which  easily  squeezes  its  way  past 
obstructions.  The  primary  larva,  with  its  various 
appendages  closely  wrapped  against  its  body  by  a  common 
sheath,  with  its  fish-like  form  and  its  single  and  only 
partially  movable  limb,  is  perfectly  adapted  to  make 
the  difficult  passage  to  the  outer  air. 
This  phase  is  of  short  duration.  Here,  for  instance, 
a  migrating  larva  shows  its  head,  with  its  big  black  eyes, 
and  raises  the  broken  fibres  of  the  entrance.  It  gradually 
works  itself  forward,  but  so  slowly  that  the  magnifying- 
glass  scarcely  reveals  its  progress.  At  the  end  of  half  an 
hour  at  the  shortest  we  see  the  entire  body  of  the  creature ; 
but  the  orifice  by  which  it  is  escaping  still  holds  it  by 
the  hinder  end  of  the  body. 
Then,  without  further  delay,  the  coat  which  it  wears 
for  this  rough  piece  of  work  begins  to  split,  and  the  larva 
skins  itself,  coming  out  of  its  wrappings  head  first. 
It  is  then  the  normal  larva  ;  the  only  form  known  to 
Reaumur.  The  rejected  coat  forms  a  suspensory  thread, 
expanding  at  its  free  end  to  form  a  little  cup.  In  this 
cup  is  inserted  the  end  of  the  abdomen  of  the  larva, 
which,  before  allowing  itself  to  fall  to  earth,  takes  a  sun- 
bath,  grows  harder,  stretches  itself,  and  tries  its  strength, 
lightly  swinging  at  the  end  of  its  life-line. 
This  little  flea,  as  Reaumur  calls  it,  first  white,  then 
amber-coloured,  is  precisely  the  larva  which  will  delve 
in  the  earth.  The  antennae,  of  fair  length,  are  free  and 
waving  to  and  fro;  the  limbs  are  bending  at  their 
articulations;  the  fore-limbs,  which  are  relatively 
powerful,  open  and  shut  their  talons.  I  can  scarcely 
think  of  any  more  curious  spectacle  than  that  of  this 
tiny  gymnast  hanging  by  its  tail,  swinging  to  the  faintest 
60    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
breath,  and  preparing  in  the  air  for  its  entry  into  the 
world.  It  hangs  there  for  a  variable  period  ;  some  larv<e 
let  themselves  fall  at  the  end  of  half  an  hour  ;  others 
spend  hours  in  their  long-stemmed  cup ;  some  even 
remain  suspended  until  the  following  day. 
Whether  soon  or  late,  the  fall  of  the  larva  leaves 
suspended  the  thread  by  which  it  hung,  the  wrappings  of 
the  primary  larva.  When  all  the  brood  have  disappeared, 
the  aperture  of  the  nest  is  thus  hung  with  a  branch  of 
fine,  short  threads,  twisted  and  knotted  together,  like 
dried  white  of  egg.  Each  thread  is  expanded  into  a 
tiny  cup  at  its  free  end.  These  are  very  delicate  and 
ephemeral  relics,  which  perish  at  a  touch.  The  least 
wind  quickly  blows  them  away. 
Let  us  return  to  the  larva.  Sooner  or  later,  as  we 
have  seen,  it  falls  to  the  ground,  either  by  accident  or 
intention.  The  tiny  creature,  no  bigger  than  a  flea,  has 
preserved  its  tender  newly-hatched  flesh  from  contact 
with  the  rough  earth  by  hanging  in  the  air  until  its 
tissues  have  hardened.  Now  it  plunges  into  the  troubles 
of  life. 
I  foresee  a  thousand  dangers  ahead.  A  mere  breath  of 
wind  may  carry  this  atom  away,  and  cast  it  on  that 
inaccessible  rock  in  the  midst  of  a  rut  in  the  road  which 
still  contains  a  little  water  ;  or  on  the  sand,  the  region  of 
famine  where  nothing  grows  ;  or  upon  a  soil  of  clay, 
too  tenacious  to  be  tunnelled.  These  mortal  accidents 
are  frequent,  for  gusts  of  wind  are  frequent  in  the  windy 
and  already  severe  weather  of  the  end  of  October. 
This  delicate  organism  requires  a  very  soft  soil,  which 
can  easily  be  entered,  so  that  it  may  immediately  obtain 
a  suitable  shelter.     The  cold  days  are  coming  ;  soon  the 
THE  CIGALE  61 
frosts  will  be  here.  To  wander  on  the  surface  would 
expose  it  to  grave  perils.  It  must  contrive  without  delay 
to  descend  into  the  earth,  and  that  to  no  trivial  depth. 
This  is  the  unique  and  imperative  condition  of  safety, 
and  in  many  cases  it  is  impossible  of  realisation.  What 
use  are  the  claws  of  this  tiny  flea  against  rock,  sandstone, 
or  hardened  clay  ?  The  creature  must  perish  if  it  cannot 
find  a  subterranean  refuge  in  good  time. 
Everything  goes  to  show  that  the  necessity  of  this  first 
foothold  on  the  soil,  subject  as  it  is  to  so  many  accidents, 
is  the  cause  of  the  great  mortality  in  the  Cigale  family. 
The  little  black  parasite,  the  destroyer  of  eggs,  in  itself 
evokes  the  necessity  of  a  large  batch  of  eggs  ;  and  the 
difficulty  which  the  larva  experiences  in  effecting  a  safe 
lodgment  in  the  earth  is  yet  another  explanation  of  the 
fact  that  the  maintenance  of  the  race  at  its  proper 
strength  requires  a  batch  of  three  or  four  hundred  eggs 
from  each  mother.  Subject  to  many  accidents,  the 
Cigale  is  fertile  to  excess.  By  the  prodigality  of  her 
ovaries  she  conjures  the  host  of  perils  which  threaten 
her  offspring. 
During  the  rest  of  my  experiment  I  can  at  least  spare 
the  larvae  the  worst  difficulties  of  their  first  establishment 
underground.  I  take  some  soil  from  the  heath,  which  is 
very  soft  and  almost  black,  and  I  pass  it  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Its  colour  will  enable  me  more  easily  to  find  the 
tiny  fair-skinned  larvae  when  I  wish  to  inform  myself 
of  passing  events ;  its  lightness  makes  it  a  suitable 
refuge  for  such  weak  and  fragile  beings.  I  pack  it 
pretty  firmly  in  a  glass  vase  ;  I  plant  in  it  a  little  tuft 
of  thyme ;  I  sow  in  it  a  few  grains  of  wheat.  There  is 
no  hole  at  the  bottom  of  the  vase,  although  there  should 
62    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
be  one  for  the  benefit  of  the  thyme  and  the  corn  ;  bu\ 
the  captives  would  find  it  and  escape  by  it.  The  planta- 
tion and  the  crop  will  suffer  from  this  lack  of  drainage, 
but  at  least  I  am  sure  of  recovering  my  larvae  with  the 
help  of  patience  and  a  magnifying-glass.  Moreover, 
1  shall  go  gently  in  the  matter  of  irrigation,  giving 
only  just  enough  water  to  save  the  plants  from 
perishing. 
When  all  is  in  order,  and  when  the  wheat  is  beginning 
to  shoot,  I  place  six  young  larva?  of  the  Cigale  on  the 
surface  of  the  soil.  The  tiny  creatures  begin  to  pace 
hither  and  thither  ;  they  soon  explore  the  surface  of 
their  world,  and  some  try  vainly  to  climb  the  sides  of  the 
vase.  Not  one  of  them  seems  inclined  to  bury  itself ; 
so  that  I  ask  myself  anxiously  what  can  be  the  object  of 
their  prolonged  and  active  explorations.  Two  hours  go 
by,  but  their  wanderings  continue. 
What  do  they  want  ?  Food  ?  I  offer  them  some 
tiny  bulbs  with  bundles  of  sprouting  roots,  a  few  frag- 
ments of  leaves  and  some  fresh  blades  of  grass. 
Nothing  tempts  them  ;  nothing  brings  them  to  a  stand- 
still. Apparently  they  are  seeking  for  a  favourable  point 
before  descending  into  the  earth.  But  there  is  no  need 
for  this  hesitating  exploration  on  the  soil  I  have  prepared 
for  them  ;  the  whole  area,  or  so  it  seems  to  me,  lends 
itself  excellently  to  the  operations  which  I  am  expecting 
to  see  them  commence.  Yet  apparently  it  will  not 
answer  the  purpose. 
Under  natural  conditions  a  little  wandering  might  well 
be  indispensable.  Spots  as  soft  as  my  bed  of  earth  from 
the  roots  of  the  briar-heather,  purged  of  all  hard  bodies 
and  finely  sifted,  are  rare  in  nature.     Coarse  soils  are 
THE   CIGALE  63 
more  usual,  on  which  the  tiny  creatures  could  make  no 
impression.  The  larva  must  wander  at  hazard,  must 
make  a  pilgrimage  of  indefinite  duration  before  finding 
a  favourable  place.  Very  many,  no  doubt,  perish, 
exhausted  by  their  fruitless  search.  A  voyage  of 
exploration  in  a  country  a  few  inches  wide  evidently 
forms  part  of  the  curriculum  of  young  Cigales.  In  my 
glass  prison,  so  luxuriously  furnished,  this  pilgrimage 
is  useless.  Never  mind  :  it  must  be  accomplished 
according  to  the  consecrated  rites. 
At  last  my  wanderers  grow  less  excited.  I  see  them 
ittack  the  earth  with  the  curved  talons  of  their  fore- 
limbs,  digging  their  claws  into  it  and  making  such  an 
excavation  as  the  point  of  a  thick  needle  would  enter. 
With  a  magnifying-glass  I  watch  their  picks  at  work. 
I  see  their  talons  raking  atom  after  atom  of  earth  to 
the  surface.  In  a  few  minutes  there  is  a  little  gaping 
well.  The  larva  climbs  downwards  and  buries  itself, 
henceforth  invisible. 
On  the  morrow  I  turn  out  the  contents  of  the  vase 
without  breaking  the  mould,  which  is  held  together  by 
the  roots  of  the  thyme  and  the  wheat.  I  find  all  my 
larvae  at  the  bottom,  arrested  by  the  glass.  In  twenty- 
four  hours  they  had  sunk  themselves  through  the  entire 
thickness  of  the  earth — a  matter  of  some  four  inches. 
But  for  obstacle  at  the  bottom  they  would  have  sunk 
even  further. 
On  the  way  they  have  probably  encountered  the 
rootlets  of  my  little  plantation.  Did  they  halt  in  order 
to  take  a  little  nourishment  by  implanting  their  pro- 
boscis ?  This  is  hardly  probable,  for  a  few  rootlets 
were  pressed  against  the  bottom  of  the  glass,  but  none 
64    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
of  my  prisoners  were  feeding.  Perhaps  the  shock  of 
reversing  the  pot  detached  them. 
It  is  obvious  that  underground  there  is  no  other 
nourishment  for  them  than  the  sap  of  roots.  Adult  or 
larva,  the  Cigale  is  a  strict  vegetarian.  As  an  adult 
insect  it  drinks  the  sap  of  twigs  and  branches  ;  as  a 
larva  it  sucks  the  sap  of  roots.  But  at  what  stage  does 
it  take  the  first  sip  ?  That  I  do  not  know  as  yet,  but  the 
foregoing  experiment  seems  to  show  that  the  newly 
hatched  larva  is  in  greater  haste  to  burrow  deep  into 
the  soil,  so  as  to  obtain  shelter  from  the  coming  winter, 
than  to  station  itself  at  the  roots  encountered  in  its 
passage  downwards. 
I  replace  the  mass  of  soil  in  the  vase,  and  the  six 
exhumed  larvae  are  once  more  placed  on  the  surface  of 
the  soil.  This  time  they  commence  to  dig  at  once,  and 
have  soon  disappeared.  Finally  the  vase  is  placed  in 
my  study  window,  where  it  will  be  subject  to  the 
influences,  good  and  ill,  of  the  outer  air. 
A  month  later,  at  the  end  of  November,  I  pay  the 
young  Cigales  a  second  visit.  They  are  crouching, 
isolated  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould.  They  do  not 
adhere  to  the  roots ;  they  have  not  grown ;  their 
appearance  has  not  altered.  Such  as  they  were  at  the 
beginning  of  the  experiment,  such  they  are  now,  but 
rather  less  active.  Does  not  this  lack  of  growth  during 
November,  the  mildest  month  of  winter,  prove  that  no 
nourishment  is  taken  until  the  spring  ? 
The  young  Sitares,  which  are  also  very  minute,  directly 
they  issue  from  the  egg  at  the  entrance  of  the  tubes  of 
the  Anthrophorus,  remain  motionless,  assembled  in  a 
heap,  and   pass   the   whole  of  the  winter  in  a  state  oi 
THE  CIGALE  65 
complete  abstinence.  The  young  Cigales  apparently 
behave  in  a  very  similar  fashion.  Once  they  have 
burrowed  to  such  depths  as  will  safeguard  them  from 
the  frosts  they  sleep  in  solitude  in  their  winter  quarters, 
and  await  the  return  of  spring  before  piercing  some 
neighbouring  root  and  taking  their  first  repast. 
I  have  tried  unsuccessfully  to  confirm  these  deductions 
by  observation.  In  April  I  unpotted  my  plant  of  thyme 
for  the  third  time.  I  broke  up  the  mould  and  spread  it 
under  the  magnifying-glass.  It  was  like  looking  for 
needles  in  a  haystack  ;  but  at  last  I  recovered  my  little 
Cigales.  They  were  dead,  perhaps  of  cold,  in  spite  of 
the  bell-glass  with  which  I  had  covered  the  pot,  or 
perhaps  of  starvation,  if  the  thyme  was  not  a  suitable 
food-plant,  I  give  up  the  problem  as  too  difficult  of 
solution. 
To  rear  such  larvae  successfully  one  would  require  a 
deep,  extensive  bed  of  earth  which  would  shelter  them 
from  the  winter  cold  ;  and,  as  I  do  not  know  what  roots 
they  prefer,  a  varied  vegetation,  so  that  the  little  creatures 
could  choose  according  to  their  taste.  These  conditions 
are  by  no  means  impracticable,  but  how,  in  the  large 
earthy  mass,  containing  at  least  a  cubic  yard  of  soil, 
should  we  recover  the  atoms  I  had  so  much  trouble  to 
find  in  a  handful  of  black  soil  from  the  heath  ?  More- 
over, such  a  laborious  search  would  certainly  detach  the 
larva  from  its  root. 
The  early  subterranean  life  of  the  Cigale  escapes  us. 
That  of  the  maturer  larva  is  no  better  known.  Nothing 
is  more  common,  while  digging  in  the  fields  to  any 
depth,  to  find  these  impetuous  excavators  under  the 
spade  ;  but  to  surprise  them  fixed  upon  the  roots  which 
A 
66    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE  INSECT  WORLD 
incontestably  nourish  them  is  quite  another  matter.  The 
disturbance  of  the  soil  warns  the  larva  of  danger.  It 
withdraws  its  proboscis  in  order  to  retreat  along  its 
galleries,  and  when  the  spade  uncovers  it  has  ceased 
to  feed. 
If  the  hazards  of  field-work,  with  its  inevitable  dis- 
turbance of  the  larvae,  cannot  teach  us  anything  of  their 
subterranean  habits,  we  can  at  least  learn  something  of 
the  duration  of  the  larval  stage.  Some  obliging  farmers, 
who  were  making  some  deep  excavations  in  March,  were 
good  enough  to  collect  for  me  all  the  larvae,  large  and 
small,  unearthed  in  the  course  of  their  labour.  The 
total  collection  amounted  to  several  hundreds.  They 
were  divided,  by  very  clearly  marked  differences  of  size, 
into  three  categories  :  the  large  larvae,  with  rudiments  of 
wings,  such  as  those  larvae  caught  upon  leaving  the  earth 
possess ;  the  medium-sized,  and  the  small.  Each  of 
these  stages  must  correspond  to  a  different  age.  To 
these  we  may  add  the  larvae  produced  by  the  last  hatch- 
ing of  eggs,  creatures  too  minute  to  be  noticed  by  my 
rustic  helpers,  and  we  obtain  four  years  as  the  probable 
term  of  the  larvae  underground. 
The  length  of  their  aerial  existence  is  more  easily 
computed.  I  hear  the  first  Cigales  about  the  summer 
solstice.  A  month  later  the  orchestra  has  attained  its 
full  power.  A  very  few  late  singers  execute  their  feeble 
solos  until  the  middle  of  September.  This  is  the  end  of 
the  concert.  As  all  the  larvae  do  not  issue  from  the 
ground  at  the  same  time,  it  is  evident  that  the  singers  of 
September  are  not  contemporary  with  those  that  began 
to  sing  at  the  solstice.  Taking  the  average  between  these 
two  dates,  we  get  five  weeks  as  the  probable  duration 
of  the  Cigales'  life  on  earth. 
THE  CIGALB  67 
Four  years  of  hard  labour  underground,  and  a  month 
of  feasting  in  the  sun  ;  such  is  the  Hfe  of  the  Cigale.  Do 
not  let  us  again  reproach  the  adult  insect  with  his 
triumphant  delirium.  For  four  years,  in  the  darkness- 
he  has  worn  a  dirty  parchment  overall  ;  for  four  years 
he  has  mined  the  soil  with  his  talons,  and  now  the  mud- 
stained  sapper  is  suddenly  clad  in  the  finest  raiment,  and 
provided  with  wings  that  rival  the  bird's  ;  moreover,  he 
is  drunken  with  heat  and  flooded  v,?ith  light,  the  supreme 
terrestrial  joy.  His  cymbals  will  never  suffice  to  celebrate 
such  felicity,  so  well  earned  although  so  ephemeral. 