CHAPTER    VI 
THE  MANTIS.— COURTSHIP 
The  little  we  have  seen  of  the  customs  of  the  Mantis  does 
not  square  very  well  with  the  popular  name  for  the  insect 
From  the  term  Prego-Dieu  we  should  expect  a  peaceful 
placid  creature,  devoutly  self-absorbed  ;  and  we  find  a 
cannibal,  a  ferocious  spectre,  biting  open  the  heads  of 
its  captives  after  demoralising  them  with  terror.  But  we 
have  yet  to  learn  the  worst.  The  customs  of  the  Mantis 
in  connection  with  its  own  kin  are  more  atrocious  even 
than  those  of  the  spiders,  who  bear  an  ill  repute  in  this 
respect. 
To  reduce  the  number  of  cages  on  my  big  laboratory 
table,  to  give  myself  a  little  more  room,  while  still  main- 
taining a  respectable  menagerie,  I  installed  several  females 
under  one  cover.  There  was  sufficient  space  in  the 
common  lodging  and  room  for  the  captives  to  move 
about,  though  for  that  matter  they  are  not  fond  of 
movement,  being  heavy  in  the  abdomen.  Crouching 
motionless  against  the  wire  work  of  the  cover,  they 
will  digest  their  food  or  await  a  passing  victim.  They 
lived,  in  short,  just  as  they  lived  on  their  native 
bushes. 
Communal  life  has  its  dangers.     When  the  hay  is  low 
80    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
in  the  manger  donkeys  grow  quarrelsome,  although 
usually  so  pacific.  My  guests  might  well,  in  a  season 
of  dearth,  have  lost  their  tempers  and  begun  to  fight 
one  another ;  but  I  was  careful  to  keep  the  cages  weP 
provided  with  crickets,  which  were  renewed  twice  a  day. 
If  civil  war  broke  out  famine  could  not  be  urged  in 
excuse. 
At  the  outset  matters  did  not  go  badly.  The  company 
lived  in  peace,  each  Mantis  pouncing  upon  and  eating 
whatever  came  her  way^  without  interfering  with  her 
neighbours.  But  this  period  of  concord  was  of  brief 
duration.  The  bellies  of  the  insects  grew  fuller  :  the 
eggs  ripened  in  their  ovaries  :  the  time  of  courtship  and 
the  laying  season  was  approaching.  Then  a  kind  of 
jealous  rage  seized  the  females,  although  no  male  wai> 
present  to  arouse  such  feminine  rivalry.  The  swelling  of 
the  ovaries  perverted  my  flock,  and  infected  them  with  an 
insane  desire  to  devour  one  another.  There  were  threats, 
horrid  encounters,  and  cannibal  feasts.  Once  more  the 
spectral  pose  was  seen,  the  hissing  of  the  wings,  and  the 
terrible  gesture  of  the  talons  outstretched  and  raised 
above  the  head.  The  females  could  not  have  looked 
more  terrible  before  a  grey  cricket  or  a  Decticus.  With- 
out any  motives  that  I  could  see,  two  neighbours 
suddenly  arose  in  the  attitude  of  conflict.  They  turned 
their  heads  to  the  right  and  the  left,  provoking  one 
another,  insulting  one  another.  The  poiif !  pouf!  of 
the  wings  rubbed  by  the  abdomen  sounded  the  charge. 
Although  the  duel  was  to  terminate  at  the  first  scratch, 
without  any  more  serious  consequence,  the  murderous 
talons,  at  first  folded,  open  like  the  leaves  of  a  book,  and 
are  extended  laterally  to  protect  the  long  waist  and  abdo- 
THE  MANTIS.— COURTSHIP  81 
men.  The  pose  is  superb,  but  less  terrific  than  that 
assumed  when  the  fight  is  to  be  to  the  death. 
Then  one  of  the  grappHng-hooks  with  a  sudden  spring 
flies  out  and  strikes  the  rival ;  with  the  same  suddenness 
it  flies  back  and  assumes  a  position  of  guard.  The  adver- 
sary repHes  with  a  riposte.  The  fencing  reminds  one 
not  a  little  of  two  cats  boxing  one  another's  ears.  At  the 
first  sign  of  blood  on  the  soft  abdomen,  or  even  at  the 
slightest  wound,  one  admits  herself  to  be  conquered  and 
retires.  The  other  refurls  her  battle  standard  and  goes 
elsewhere  to  meditate  the  capture  of  a  cricket,  apparently 
calm,  but  in  reality  ready  to  recommence  the  quarrel. 
Very  often  the  matter  turns  out  more  tragically.  In 
duels  to  the  death  the  pose  of  attack  is  assumed  in  all  its 
beauty.  The  murderous  talons  unfold  and  rise  in  the  air. 
Woe  to  the  vanquished  !  for  the  victor  seizes  her  in  her 
vice-like  grip  and  at  once  commences  to  eat  her  ;  begin- 
ning, needless  to  say,  at  the  back  of  the  neck.  The 
odious  meal  proceeds  as  calmly  as  if  it  were  merely  a 
matter  of  munching  a  grasshopper  ;  and  the  survivor 
enjoys  her  sister  quite  as  much  as  lawful  game.  The 
spectators  do  not  protest,  being  only  too  willing  to  do  the 
like  on  the  first  occasion. 
Ferocious  creatures  !  It  is  said  that  even  wolves  do 
not  eat  one  another.  The  Mantis  is  not  so  scrupulous  ; 
she  will  eat  her  fellows  when  her  favourite  quarry,  the 
cricket,  is  attainable  and  abundant. 
These  observations  reach  a  yet  more  revolting  extreme. 
Let  us  inquire  into  the  habits  of  the  insect  at  breeding 
time,  and  to  avoid  the  confusion  of  a  crowd  let  us  isolate 
the  couples  under  different  covers.  Thus  each  pair  will 
have  their  own  dwelling,  where  nothing  can  trouble  their 
7 
82    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
honeymoon.  We  will  not  forget  to  provide  them  with 
abundant  food  ;  there  shall  not  be  the  excuse  of  hunger 
for  what  is  to  follow. 
We  are  near  the  end  of  August.  The  male  Mantis,  a 
slender  and  elegant  lover,  judges  the  time  to  be  pro- 
pitious. He  makes  eyes  at  his  powerful  companion  ;  he 
turns  his  head  towards  her ;  he  bows  his  neck  and 
raises  his  thorax.  His  little  pointed  face  almost  seems 
to  wear  an  expression.  For  a  long  time  he  stands  thus 
motionless,  in  contemplation  of  the  desired  one.  The 
latter,  as  though  indifferent,  does  not  stir.  Yet  the  lover 
has  seized  upon  a  sign  of  consent :  a  sign  of  which  I  do 
not  know  the  secret.  He  approaches:  suddenly  he  erects 
his  wings,  which  are  shaken  with  a  convulsive  tremor. 
This  is  his  declaration.  He  throws  himself  timidly  on 
the  back  of  his  corpulent  companion  ;  he  clings  to  her 
desperately,  and  steadies  himself.  The  prelude  to  the 
embrace  is  generally  lengthy,  and  the  embrace  will  some- 
times last  for  five  or  six  hours. 
Nothing  worthy  of  notice  occurs  during  this  time. 
Finally  the  two  separate,  but  they  are  soon  to  be  made  one 
flesh  in  a  much  more  intimate  fashion.  If  the  poor  lover 
is  loved  by  his  mistress  as  the  giver  of  fertility,  she  also 
loves  him  as  the  choicest  of  game.  During  the  day,  or  at 
latest  on  the  morrow,  he  is  seized  by  his  companion,  who 
first  gnaws  through  the  back  of  his  neck,  according  to 
use  and  wont,  and  then  methodically  devours  him,  mouth- 
ful by  mouthful,  leaving  only  the  wings.  Here  we  have 
no  case  of  jealousy,  but  simply  a  depraved  taste. 
I  had  the  curiosity  to  wonder  how  a  second  male 
would  be  received  by  a  newly  fecundated  female.  The 
result   of  my  inquiry  was  scandalous.    The  Mantis  in 
THE  MANTIS.— COURTSHIP  gS 
only  too  many  cases  is  never  sated  with  embraces  and 
conjugal  feasts.  After  a  rest,  of  variable  duration,  whether 
the  eggs  have  been  laid  or  not,  a  second  male  is  welcomed 
and  devoured  like  the  first.  A  third  succeeds  him,  does 
his  duty,  and  affords  yet  another  meal.  A  fourth  suffers 
a  like  fate.  In  the  course  of  two  weeks  I  have  seen  the 
same  Mantis  treat  seven  husbands  in  this  fashion.  She 
admitted  all  to  her  embraces,  and  all  paid  for  the 
nuptial  ecstasy  with  their  lives. 
There  are  exceptions,  but  such  orgies  are  frequent. 
On  very  hot  days,  when  the  atmospheric  tension  is  high, 
they  are  almost  the  general  rule.  At  such  times  the 
Mantis  is  all  nerves.  Under  covers  which  contain  large 
households  the  females  devour  one  another  more 
frequently  than  ever  ;  under  the  covers  which  contain 
isolated  couples  the  males  are  devoured  more  eagerly 
than  usual  when  their  office  has  been  fulfilled. 
I  might  urge,  in  mitigation  of  these  conjugal 
atrocities,  that  the  Mantis  does  not  commit  them  when 
at  liberty.  The  male,  his  function  once  fulfilled,  surely 
has  time  to  wander  off,  to  escape  far  away,  to  flee  the 
terrible  spouse,  for  in  my  cages  he  is  given  a  respite, 
often  of  a  whole  day.  What  really  happens  by  the 
roadside  and  in  the  thickets  I  do  not  know  ;  chance, 
a  poor  schoolmistress,  has  never  instructed  me  concerning 
the  love-affairs  of  the  Mantis  when  at  liberty.  I  am 
obliged  to  watch  events  in  my  laboratory,  where  the 
captives,  enjoying  plenty  of  sunshine,  well  nourished,  and 
comfortably  lodged,  do  not  seem  in  any  way  to  suffer 
from  nostalgia.  They  should  behave  there  as  they 
behave  under  normal  conditions. 
Alas  !  the  facts  force  me  to  reject  the  statement  that 
84    SOCIAL  LIFE  EST  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
the  males  have  time  to  escape  ;  for  I  once  surprised  a 
male,  apparently  in  the  performance  of  his  vital  func- 
tions, holding  the  female  tightly  embraced — but  he  had 
no  head,  no  neck,  scarcely  any  thorax  1  The  female,  her 
head  turned  over  her  shoulder,  was  peacefully  browsing 
on  the  remains  of  her  lover  I  And  the  masculine 
remnant,  firmly  anchored,  continued  its  duty  I 
Love,  it  is  said,  is  stronger  than  death  !  Taken 
literally,  never  has  an  aphorism  received  a  more  striking 
confirmation.  Here  was  a  creature  decapitated,  ampu- 
tated as  far  as  the  middle  of  the  thorax ;  a  corpse  which 
still  struggled  to  give  life.  It  would  not  relax  its  hold 
until  the  abdomen  itself,  the  seat  of  the  organs  of 
procreation,  was  attacked. 
The  custom  of  eating  the  lover  after  the  consummation 
of  the  nuptials,  of  making  a  meal  of  the  exhausted 
pigmy,  who  is  henceforth  good  for  nothing,  is  not  so 
difficult  to  understand,  since  insects  can  hardly  be 
accused  of  sentimentality  ;  but  to  devour  him  during  the 
act  surpasses  anything  that  the  most  morbid  mind  could 
imagine.  I  have  seen  the  thing  with  my  own  eyes,  and 
I  have  not  yet  recovered  from  my  surprise. 
Could  this  unfortunate  creature  have  fled  and  saved 
himself,  being  thus  attacked  in  the  performance  of  his 
functions  ?  No.  We  must  conclude  that  the  loves  of 
the  Mantis  are  fully  as  tragic,  perhaps  even  more  so,  than 
those  of  the  spider.  I  do  not  deny  that  the  limited  area 
of  the  cage  may  favour  the  massacre  of  the  males ;  but 
the  cause  of  such  butchering  must  be  sought  elsewhere. 
It  is  perhaps  a  reminiscence  of  the  carboniferous  period 
when  the  insect  world  gradually  took  shape  through 
prodigidus  procreation.     The  Orthoptera,  of  which  the 
THE  MANTIS.— COURTSHIP  85 
Mantes  form  a  branch,   are  the  firstborn  of   the  insect 
world. 
Uncouth,  incomplete  in  their  transformation,  they 
wandered  amidst  the  arborescent  foliage,  already  flourish- 
ing when  none  of  the  insects  sprung  of  more  complex 
forms  of  metamorphosis  were  as  yet  in  existence  :  neither 
butterflies,  beetles,  flies,  nor  bees.  Manners  were  not 
gentle  in  those  epochs,  which  were  full  of  the  lust  to 
destroy  in  order  to  produce  ;  and  the  Mantis,  a  feeble 
memory  of  those  ancient  ghosts,  might  well  preserve  the 
customs  of  an  earlier  age.  The  utilisation  of  the  males 
as  food  is  a  custom  in  the  case  of  other  members  of 
the  Mantis  family.  It  is,  I  must  admit,  a  general  habit. 
The  little  grey  Mantis,  so  small  and  looking  so  harmless 
in  her  cage,  which  never  seeks  to  harm  her  neighbours 
in  spite  of  her  crowded  quarters,  falls  upon  her  male  and 
devours  him  as  ferociously  as  the  Praying  Mantis.  I 
have  worn  myself  out  in  trying  to  procure  the  indispen- 
sable complements  to  my  female  specimens.  No  sooner 
is  my  capture,  strongly  winged,  vigorous  and  alert, 
introduced  into  the  cage  than  he  is  seized,  more  often 
than  not,  by  one  of  the  females  who  no  longer  have  need 
of  his  assistance  and  devoured.  Once  the  ovaries  are 
satisfied  the  two  species  of  Mantis  conceive  an  antipathy 
for  the  male ;  or  rather  they  regard  him  merely  as  a 
particularly  tasty  species  of  game. 