CHAPTER    XIX 
AN   I^fVADER. — THE   HARICOT-WEEVIL 
If  there  is  one  vegetable  on  earth  that  more  than  any 
other  is  a  gift  of  the  gods,  it  is  the  haricot  bean.  It  has 
all  the  virtues  :  it  forms  a  soft  paste  upon  the  tongue  ; 
it  is  extremely  palatable,  abundant,  inexpensive,  and 
highly  nutritious.  It  is  a  vegetable  meat  which,  without 
being  bloody  and  repulsive,  is  the  equivalent  of  the 
horrors  outspread  upon  the  butcher's  slab.  To  recall  its 
services  the  more  emphatically,  the  Proven9al  idiom  calls 
it  the  goun/io-gus — the  filler  of  the  poor. 
Blessed  Bean,  consoler  of  the  wretched,  right  well 
indeed  do  you  fill  the  labourer,  the  honest,  skilful 
worker  who  has  drawn  a  low  number  in  the  crazy 
lottery  of  life.  Kindly  Haricot,  with  three  drops  of  oil 
and  a  dash  of  vinegar  you  were  the  favourite  dish  of 
my  young  years  ;  and  even  now,  in  the  evening  of  my 
days,  you  are  welcome  to  my  humble  porringer.  We 
shall  be  friends  to  the  last. 
To-day  it  is  not  my  intention  to  sing  your  merits  ;  I 
wish  simply  to  ask  you  a  question,  being  curious  :  What 
is  the  country  of  your  origin  ?  Did  you  come  from 
Central  Asia  with  the  broad  bean  and  the  pea  ?  Did  you 
make  part  of  that   collection   of   seeds   which  the  first 
I 
J 
AN  INVADER  283 
pioneers  of  culture  brought  us  from  their  gardens  ? 
Were  you  known  to  antiquity  ? 
Here  the  insect,  an  impartial  and  well-informed 
witness,  answers  :  "  No ;  in  our  country  antiquity  was 
not  acquainted  with  the  haricot.  The  precious  vegetable 
came  hither  by  the  same  road  as  the  broad  bean.  It  is 
a  foreigner,  and  of  comparatively  recent  introduction 
into  Europe." 
The  reply  of  the  insect  merits  serious  examination, 
supported  as  it  is  by  extremely  plausible  arguments. 
Here  are  the  facts.  For  years  attentive  to  matters 
agricultural,  I  had  never  seen  haricots  attacked  by  any 
insect  whatever  ;  not  even  by  the  Bruchidae,  the  licensed 
robbers  of  leguminous  seeds. 
On  this  point  I  have  questioned  my  peasant  neighbours. 
They  are  men  of  the  extremest  vigilance  in  all  that 
concerns  their  crops.  To  steal  their  property  is  an 
abominable  crime,  swiftly  discovered.  Moreover,  the 
housewife,  who  individually  examines  all  beans  intended 
for  the  saucepan,  would  inevitably  find  the  malefactor. 
All  those  I  have  spoken  to  replied  to  my  questions 
with  a  smile  in  which  I  read  their  lack  of  faith  in  my 
knowledge  of  insects.  "  Sir,"  they  said,  "  you  must 
know  that  there  are  never  grubs  in  the  haricot  bean.  It 
is  a  blessed  vegetable,  respected  by  the  weevil.  The  pea, 
the  broad  bean,  the  vetch,  and  the  chick-pea  all  have 
their  vermin  ;  but  the  haricot,  lou  goun/lo-gus,  never. 
What  should  we  do,  poor  folk  as  we  are,  if  the 
Courcoussoun  robbed  us  of  it  ? " 
The  fact  is  that  the  weevil  despises  the  haricot  ;  a  very 
curious  dislike  if  we  consider  how  industriously  the  other 
vegetables  of  the  same  family  are  attacked.     All,  even  the 
284     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT   WORLD 
beggarly  lentil,  are  eagerly  exploited  ;  whilst  the  haricot, 
so  tempting  both  as  to  size  and  flavour,  remains  un- 
touched. It  is  incomprehensible.  Why  should  the 
Bruchus,  which  without  hesitation  passes  from  the 
excellent  to  the  indifferent,  and  from  the  indifferent 
to  the  excellent,  disdain  this  particularly  toothsome 
seed  ?  It  leaves  the  forest  vetch  for  the  pea,  and  the 
pea  for  the  broad  bean,  as  pleased  with  the  small  as  with 
the  large,  yet  the  temptations  of  the  haricot  bean  leave 
it  indifferent.     Why  ? 
Apparently  because  the  haricot  is  unknown  to  it. 
The  other  leguminous  plants,  whether  native  or  of 
Oriental  origin,  have  been  familiar  to  it  for  centuries  ;  it 
has  tested  their  virtues  year  by  year,  and,  confiding  in 
the  lessons  of  the  past,  it  bases  its  forethought  for  the 
future  upon  ancient  custom.  The  haricot  is  avoided  as 
a  newcomer,  whose  merits  it  has  not  yet  learned. 
The  insect  emphatically  informs  us  that  with  us  the 
haricot  is  of  recent  date.  It  has  come  to  us  from  a 
distant  country  :  and  assuredly  from  the  New  World. 
Every  edible  vegetable  attracts  its  consumers.  If  it  had 
originated  in  the  Old  World  the  haricot  would  have  had 
its  licensed  consumers,  as  have  the  pea,  the  lentil,  and  the 
broad  bean.  The  smallest  leguminous  seed,  if  barely 
bigger  than  a  pin's  head,  nourishes  its  weevil ;  a  dwarf 
which  patiently  nibbles  it  and  excavates  a  dwelling  ;  but 
the  plump,  delicious  haricot  is  spared. 
This  astonishing  immunity  can  have  only  one  explana- 
tion :  like  the  potato  and  the  maize-plant,  the  haricot  is 
a  gift  of  the  New  World.  It  arrived  in  Europe  without 
the  company  of  the  insect  which  exploits  it  in  its  native 
country ;  it   has  found   in  our   fields  another  world  of 
AN  INVADER  385 
insects,  which  have  despised  it  because  they  did  not 
know  it.  Similarly  the  potato  and  the  ear  of  maize  are 
untouched  in  France  unless  their  American  consumers 
are  accidentally  imported  with  them. 
The  verdict  of  the  insect  is  confirmed  by  the  negative 
testimony  of  the  ancient  classics ;  the  haricot  never 
appears  on  the  table  of  the  Greek  or  Roman  peasant. 
In  the  second  Eclogue  of  Virgil  Thestylis  prepares  the 
repast  of  the  harvesters  : — 
Thestylis  et  rapido  fessis  messoribus  aestu 
Allia  serpyllumque  herbas  contundit  olentes. 
This  mixture  is  the  equivalent  of  the  aioli,  dear  to  the 
Provencal  palate.  It  sounds  very  well  in  verse,  but  is 
not  very  substantial.  On  such  an  occasion  men  would 
look  for  that  fundamental  dish,  the  plate  of  red  haricots, 
seasoned  with  chopped  onions.  All  in  good  time  ;  this 
at  least  would  ballast  the  stomach.  Thus  refreshed  in 
the  open  air,  listening  to  the  song  of  the  cigales,  the 
gang  of  harvesters  would  take  their  mid-day  rest  and 
gently  digest  their  meal  in  the  shadows  of  the  sheaves. 
Our  modern  Thestylis,  differing  little  from  her  classic 
sister,  would  take  good  care  not  to  forget  the  goun/lo-gus, 
that  economical  resource  of  large  appetites.  The 
Thestylis  of  the  past  did  not  think  of  providing  it 
because  she  did  not  know  it.  < 
The  same  author  shows  us  Tityrus  offering  a  night's 
hospitality  to  his  friend  Melibceus,  who  has  been  driven 
from  his  property  by  the  soldiers  of  Octavius,  and  goes 
limping  behind  his  flock  of  goats.  '■*  We  shall  have,  says 
Tityrus,  chestnuts,  cheese,  and  fruits.  History  does  not 
say  if  Melibceus  allowed  himself  to  be  tempted.     It  is 
286     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
a  pity ;  for  during  the  frugal  meal  we  might  have  learned 
in  a  more  explicit  fashion  that  the  shepherds  of  the 
ancient  world  were  net  acquainted  with  the  haricot. 
Ovid  tells  us,  in  a  delightful  passage,  of  the  manner  in 
which  Philemon  and  Baucis  received  the  gods  unawares 
.IS  guests  in  their  humble  cottage.  On  the  three-legged 
table,  which  was  levelled  by  means  of  a  potsherd  under 
one  of  the  legs,  they  served  cabbage  soup,  rusty  bacon, 
eggs  poached  for  a  minute  in  the  hot  cinders,  cornel- 
berries  pickled  in  brine,  honey,  and  fruits.  In  this  rustic 
abundance  one  dish  was  lacking  ;  an  essential  dish,  which 
the  Baucis  of  our  country-side  would  never  forget. 
After  bacon  soup  would  follow  the  obligatory  plate  of 
haricots.  Why  did  Ovid,  so  prodigal  of  detail,  neglect 
to  mention  a  dish  so  appropriate  to  the  occasion  ?  The 
reply  is  the  same  as  before  :  because  he  did  not  know 
of  it. 
In  vain  have  I  recapitulated  all  that  my  reading  has 
taught  me  concerning  the  rustic  dietary  of  ancient  times  ; 
I  can  recollect  no  mention  of  the  haricot.  The  worker 
in  the  vineyard  and  the  harvester  have  their  lupins, 
broad  beans,  peas,  and  lentils,  but  never  the  bean  of 
beans,  the  haricot. 
The  haricot  has  a  reputation  of  another  kind.  It  is  a 
source  of  flatulence  ;  you  eat  it,  as  the  saying  is,  and  then 
you  take  a  walk.  It  lends  itself  to  the  gross  pleasantries 
loved  of  the  populace ;  especially  when  they  are  formu- 
lated by  the  shameless  genius  of  an  Aristophanes  or  a 
Plautus.  What  merriment  over  a  simple  allusion  to  the 
sonorous  bean,  what  guffaws  from  the  throats  of 
Athenian  sailors  or  Roman  porters  I  Did  the  two 
masters,   in    the    unfettered    gaiety   of   a   language    less 
AN  INVADER  287 
reserved  than  our  own,  ever  mention  the  virtues  of  the 
haricot  ?  No  ;  they  are  absolutely  silent  concerning  the 
trumpet-voiced  vegetable. 
The  name  of  the  bean  is  a  matter  for  reflection.  It 
is  of  an  unfamiliar  sound,  having  no  affinity  with  our 
language.  By  its  unlikeness  to  our  native  combinations 
of  sounds,  it  makes  one  think  of  the  West  Indies  or 
South  America,  as  do  caoutchouc  and  cacao.  Does  the 
word  as  a  matter  of  fact  come  from  the  American 
Indians  ?  Did  we  receive,  together  with  the  vegetable, 
the  name  by  which  it  is  known  in  its  native  country  ? 
Perhaps  ;  but  how  are  we  to  know  ?  Haricot,  fantastic 
haricot,  you  set  us  a  curious  philological  problem. 
It  is  also  known  in  French  as  faseole,  or  flageolet. 
The  Provengal  calls  it  faiou  and  favioii ;  the  Catalan, 
fayol ;  the  Spaniard,  faseolo  ;  the  Portuguese,  feydo ;  the 
Italian,  fagiuolo.  Here  I  am  on  familiar  ground  :  the 
languages  of  the  Latin  family  have  preserved,  with  the 
inevitable  modifications,  the  ancient  word  faseolus. 
Now,  if  I  consult  my  dictionary  I  find :  faselus, 
faseolus,  phaseolus,  haricot.  Learned  lexicographer, 
permit  me  to  remark  that  your  translation  is  incorrect : 
faselus,  faseolus  ca.nnoi  mean  haricot.  The  incontestable 
proof  is  in  the  Georgics,  where  Virgil  tells  us  at  what 
season  we  must  sow  the  faselus.     He  says  :-~ 
Si  vero  viciamque  seres  vilemque  faselum  .  . 
Haud  obscura  cadens  mittet  tibi  signa  Bootes  ; 
Incipe,  et  ad  medias  sementem  extende  pruinas. 
Nothing  is  clearer  than  the  precept  of  the  poet  who 
was  so  admirably  familiar  with  all  matters  agricultural ; 
the  sowing  of  the  faselus  must   be  commenced   when 
288     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
the  constellation  of  Bootes  disappears  at  the  set  of  sun, 
that  is,  in  October  ;  arid  it  is  to  be  continued  until  the 
middle  of  the  winter. 
These  conditions  put  the  haricot  out  of  the  running  : 
it  is  a  delicate  plant,  which  would  never  survive  the 
lightest  frost.  Winter  would  be  fatal  to  it,  even  under 
Italian  skies.  More  refractory  to  cold  on  account  of 
the  country  of  their  origin,  peas,  broad  beans,  and 
vetches,  and  other  leguminous  plants  have  nothing  to 
fear  from  an  autumn  sowing,  and  prosper  during  the 
winter  provided  the  climate  be  fairly  mild. 
What  then  is  represented  by  the  faselus  of  the 
Georgics,  that  problematical  vegetable  which  has  trans- 
mitted its  name  to  the  haricot  in  the  Latin  tongues  ? 
Remembering  that  the  contemptuous  epithet  vilis  is  used 
by  the  poet  in  qualification,  I  am  strongly  inclined  to 
regard  it  as  the  cultivated  vetch,  the  big  square  pea,  the 
little-valued  ja'isso  of  the  Proven9al  peasant. 
The  problem  of  the  haricot  stood  thus,  almost  eluci- 
dated by  the  testimony  of  the  insect  world  alone,  when 
an  unexpected  witness  gave  me  the  last  word  of  the 
enigma.  It  was  once  again  a  poet,  and  a  famous  poet, 
M.  Jos^-Maria  de  Heredia,  who  came  to  the  aid  of  the 
naturalist.  Without  suspecting  the  service  he  was 
rendering,  a  friend  of  mine,  the  village  schoolmaster, 
lent  me  a  magazine »  in  which  I  read  the  following 
conversation  between  the  master-sonneteer  and  a  lady 
journalist,  who  was  anxious  to  know  which  of  his  own 
works  he  preferred. 
"  What   would  you   have   me   say  ? "    said   the    poet. 
»The  Christmas  number  {Noel)  of  the  Annates  poliitques  et 
tiUeraires :  Les  En/ants  juges  par  leurs  peres,  1901. 
AN   INVADER  289 
"  I  do  not  know  what  to  say,  I  do  not  know  which 
sonnet  I  prefer ;  I  have  taken  horrible  pains  with  all  of 
them  .  .  .    But  you,  which  do  you  prefer?" 
"  My  dear  master,  how  can  I  choose  out  of  so  many 
jewels,  when  each  one  is  perfect  in  its  beauty?  You 
flash  pearls,  emeralds,  and  rubies  before  my  astonished 
eyes  :  how  should  I  decide  to  prefer  the  emerald  to  the 
pearl  ?  I  am  transported  by  admiration  of  the  whole 
necklace." 
"  Well,  as  for  me,  there  is  something  I  am  more  proud 
of  than  of  all  my  sonnets,  and  which  has  done  much 
more  for  my  reputation  than  my  verses." 
I  opened  my  eyes  wide,  "  What  is  that  ? "  I  asked. 
The  master  looked  at  me  mischievously  ;  then,  with  that 
beautiful  light  in  his  eyes  which  fires  his  youthful 
countenance,  he  said  triumphantly — 
"  It  is  my  discovery  of  the  etymology  of  the  word 
haricot ! " 
I  was  so  amazed  that  I  forgot  to  laugh. 
"  I  am  perfectly  serious  in  telling  you  this." 
"  I  know,  my  dear  master,  of  your  reputation  for 
profound  scholarship  :  but  to  imagine,  on  that  account, 
that  you  were  famed  for  your  discovery  of  the  etymology 
of  haricot — I  should  never  have  expected  it  !  Will  you 
tell  me  how  you  made  the  discovery  ? " 
"  Willingly.  See  now  :  I  found  some  information 
respecting  the  haricot  while  studying  that  fine  seventeenth- 
century  work  of  natural  history  by  Hernandez  :  De 
Hi^ioria  planiarum  novi  orbis.  The  word  haricot  was 
unknown  in  France  until  the  seventeenth  century : 
people  used  the  word  feve  or  phaseol :  in  Mexican,  ayacot 
Thirty   species  of    haricot  were  cultivated    in    Mexico 
go 
290     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
before  the  conquest.  They  are  still  known  as  ayacotf 
especially  the  red  haricot,  spotted  with  black  or  violet. 
One  day  at  the  house  of  Gaston  Paris  I  met  a  famous 
scholar.  Hearing  my  name,  he  rushed  at  me  and  asked 
if  it  was  I  who  had  discovered  the  etymology  of  the 
word  haricot.  He  was  absolutely  ignorant  of  the  fact 
that  I  had  written  verses  and  published  the  Trophees." — 
A  very  pretty  whim,  to  count  the  jewellery  of  his 
famous  sonnets  as  second  in  importance  to  the  nomen- 
clature of  a  vegetable  !  I  in  my  turn  was  delighted  with 
his  ayacot.  How  right  I  was  to  suspect  the  outlandish 
A'ord  of  American  Indian  origin  !  How  right  the  insect 
was,  in  testifying,  in  its  own  fashion,  that  the  precious 
bean  came  to  us  from  the  New  World  !  While  still 
retaining  its  original  name — or  something  sufficiently 
like  it — the  bean  of  Montezuma,  the  Aztec  ayacot, 
has  migrated  from  Mexico  to  the  kitchen-gardens  of 
Europe. 
But  it  has  reached  us  without  the  company  of  its 
licensed  consumer  ;  for  there  must  assuredly  be  a  weevil 
in  its  native  country  which  levies  tribute  on  its  nourishing 
tissues.  Our  native  bean-eaters  have  mistaken  the  stranger ; 
they  have  not  had  time  as  yet  to  grow  familiar  with  it, 
or  to  appreciate  its  merits;  they  have  prudently  abstained 
from  touching  the  ayacot,  whose  novelty  awoke  suspicion.. 
Until  our  own  days  the  Mexican  bean  remained 
untouched  :  unlike  our  other  leguminous  seeds,  which 
are  all  eagerly  exploited  by  the  weevil. 
This  state  of  affairs  could  not  last.  If  our  own  fields 
do  not  contain  the  insect  amateur  of  the  haricot  the 
New  World  knows  it  well  enough.  By  the  road  of 
commercial  exchange,  sooner  or  later  some  worm-eaten 
AN  INVADER  291 
sack  of  haricots  must  bring  it  to  Europe.  The  invasion 
is  inevitable. 
According  to  documents  now  before  me,  indeed,  it  has 
already  taken  place.  Three  or  four  years  ago  I  received 
from  Maillane,  in  the  Bouches-du-Rhone,  what  I  sought 
in  vain  in  my  own  neighbourhood,  although  I  questioned 
many  a  farmer  and  housewife,  and  astonished  them  by 
my  questions.  No  one  had  ever  seen  the  pest  of  the 
haricot ;  no  one  had  ever  heard  of  it.  Friends  who 
knew  of  my  inquiries  sent  me  from  Maillane,  as  I  have 
said,  information  that  gave  great  satisfaction  to  my 
naturalist's  curiosity.  It  was  accompanied  by  a  measure 
of  haricots  which  were  utterly  and  outrageously  spoiled  ; 
every  bean  was  riddled  with  holes,  changed  into  a  kind 
of  sponge.  Within  them  swarmed  innumerable  weevils, 
which  recalled,  by  their  diminutive  size,  the  lentil-weevil, 
Brnchus  lenti. 
The  senders  told  me  of  the  loss  experienced  at 
Maillane.  The  odious  little  creature,  they  said,  had 
destroyed  the  greater  portion  of  the  harvest.  A  veritable 
plague,  such  as  had  never  before  been  known,  had 
fallen  upon  the  haricots,  leaving  the  housewife  barely  a 
handful  to  put  in  the  saucepan.  Of  the  habits  of  the 
creature  and  its  way  of  going  to  work  nothing  was 
known.  It  was  for  me  to  discover  them  by  means  of 
experiment. 
Quick,  then,  let  us  experiment  !  The  circumstances 
favour  me.  We  are  in  the  middle  of  June,  and  in  my 
garden  there  is  a  bed  of  early  haricots;  the  black  Belgian 
haricots,  sown  for  use  in  the  kitchen.  Since  I  must 
sacrifice  the  toothsome  vegetable,  let  us  loose  the  terrible 
destroyer  on  the  mass  of  verdure.    The  development  of 
292     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
the  plant  is  at  the  requisite  stage,  if  I  may  go  by  what 
the  Bruchns  pisi  has  already  taught  me  ;  the  flowers  are 
abundant,  and  the  pods  are  equally  so ;  still  green,  and  of 
all  sizes. 
I  place  on  a  plate  two  or  three  handfuls  of  the 
infested  haricots,  and  set  the  populous  heap  in  the 
full  sunlight  by  the  edge  of  my  bed  of  beans.  I  can 
imagine  what  will  happen.  Those  insects  which  are 
already  free,  and  those  which  the  stimulus  of  the 
sunshine  will  presently  liberate,  will  emerge  and  take 
to  their  wings.  Finding  the  maternal  haricot  close  at 
hand  they  will  take  possession  of  the  vines.  I  shall 
see  them  exploring  pods  and  flowers,  and  before  very 
long  they  will  lay  their  eggs.  That  is  how  the  pea- 
weevil  would  behave  under  similar  conditions. 
But  no  :  to  my  surprise  and  confusion,  matters  do 
not  fall  out  as  I  foresaw.  For  a  few  minutes  the  insects 
bustle  about  in  the  sunlight,  opening  and  closing  their 
wing-covers  to  ease  the  mechanism  of  flight;  then  one  by 
one  they  fly  away,  mounting  in  the  luminous  air  ;  they 
grow  smaller  and  smaller  to  the  sight,  and  are  quickly 
lost  to  view.  My  persevering  attentions  have  not  met 
with  the  slightest  success ;  not  one  of  the  weevils  has 
settled  on  my  haricots. 
When  the  joys  of  liberty  have  been  tasted  will  they 
return — to-night,  to-morrow,  or  later  ?  No,  they  do  not 
return.  All  that  week,  at  favourable  hours,  I  inspect  the 
rows  of  beans  pod  by  pod,  flower  by  flower  ;  but  never 
a  Bruchus  do  I  see,  nor  even  an  tgg.  Yet  the  season  is 
propitious,  for  at  this  very  moment  the  mothers  impri- 
soned in  my  jars  lay  a  profusion  of  eggs  upon  the  dry 
haricots. 
AN  INVADEB  293 
Next  season  I  try  again.  I  have  at  my  disposal  two 
other  beds,  which  I  have  sown  with  the  late  haricot,  the 
red  haricot ;  partly  for  the  use  of  the  household,  but 
principally  for  the  benefit  of  the  weevil.  Arranged  in 
convenient  rows,  the  two  crops  will  be  ready,  one  in 
August  and  one  in  September  or  later. 
With  the  red  haricot  I  repeat  the  experiment  already 
essayed  with  the  black  haricot.  On  several  occasions,  in 
suitable  weather,  I  release  large  numbers  of  weevils  from 
my  glass  jars,  the  general  headquarters  of  the  tribe.  On 
each  occasion  the  result  is  plainly  negative.  All  through 
the  season,  until  both  crops  are  exhausted,  I  repeat  my 
search  almost  daily;  but  I  can  never  discover  a  single 
pod  infested,  nor  even  a  single  weevil  perching  on  leaf  or 
flower. 
Certainly  the  inspection  has  not  been  at  fault.  The 
household  is  warned  to  respect  certain  rows  of  beans 
which  I  have  reserved  for  myself.  It  is  also  requested  to 
keep  a  look-out  for  eggs  on  all  the  pods  gathered.  I 
myself  examine  with  a  magnifying-glass  all  the  haricots 
coming  from  my  own  or  from  neighbouring  gardens 
before  handing  them  over  to  the  housewife  to  be  shelled. 
All  my  trouble  is  wasted  :  there  is  not  an  egg  to  be  seen. 
To  these  experiments  in  the  open  air  I  add  others 
performed  under  glass.  I  place,  in  some  tall,  narrow 
bottles,  fresh  haricot  pods  hanging  from  their  stems  ; 
some  green,  others  mottled  with  crimson,  and  containing 
seeds  not  far  from  mature.  Each  bottle  is  finally  given 
a  population  of  weevils.  This  time  I  obtain  some  eggs, 
but  I  am  no  further  advanced  ;  they  are  laid  on  the  sides 
of  the  bottles,  but  not  on  the  pods.  Nevertheless,  they 
hatch.     For  a  few  days  I  see  the  j^rubs  wandering  about, 
294      SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE   INSECT  WORLD 
exploring  the  pods  and  the  glass  with  equal  zeal. 
Finally  one  and  all  perish  without  touching  the  food 
provided. 
The  conclusion  to  be  drawn  from  these  facts  is 
obvious  :  the  young  and  tender  haricot  is  not  the  proper 
diet.  Unlike  the  Bruchus  pisi,  the  female  of  the  haricot- 
weevil  refuses  to  trust  her  family  to  beans  that  are  not 
hardened  by  age  and  desiccation  ;  she  refused  to  settle 
on  my  bean-patch  because  the  food  she  required  was 
not  to  be  found  there.  What  does  she  require  ?  Evidently 
the  mature,  dry,  hard  haricot,  which  falls  to  earth  with 
the  sound  of  a  small  pebble.  I  hasten  to  satisfy  her.  I 
place  in  the  bottles  some  very  mature,  horny  pods, 
thoroughly  desiccated  by  exposure  to  the  sun.  This  time 
the  family  prospers,  the  grubs  perforate  the  dry  shell, 
reach  the  beans,  penetrate  them,  and  henceforth  all  goes 
well. 
To  judge  by  appearances,  then,  the  weevil  invades 
the  granary.  The  beans  are  left  standing  in  the  fields 
until  both  plants  and  pods,  shrivelled  by  the  sun,  are  com- 
pletely desiccated.  The  process  of  beating  the  pods  to 
loosen  and  separate  the  beans  is  thus  greatly  facilitated. 
It  is  then  that  the  weevil,  finding  matters  to  suit  her,  com- 
mences to  lay  her  eggs.  By  storing  his  crop  a  little  late 
the  peasant  stores  the  pest  as  well. 
But  the  weevil  more  especially  attacks  the  haricot  when 
warehoused.  Like  the  Calander-beetle,  which  nibbles 
the  wheat  in  our  granaries  but  despises  the  cereal  while 
still  on  the  stalk,  it  abhors  the  bean  while  tender,  and 
prefers  to  establish  itself  in  the  peace  and  darkness  of  the 
storehouse.  It  is  a  formidable  enemy  to  the  merchant 
rather  than  to  the  peasant. 
AN  INVADEE  205 
What  a  fury  of  destruction  once  the  ravager  is 
installed  in  the  vegetable  treasure-house  I  My  bottles 
give  abundant  evidence  of  this.  One  single  haricot  bean 
shelters  a  numerous  family;  often  as  many  as  twenty 
members.  And  not  one  generation  only  exploits  the 
bean,  but  three  or  four  in  the  year.  So  long  as  the  skin 
of  the  bean  contains  any  edible  matter,  so  long  do  new 
consumers  establish  themselves  within  it,  so  that  the  haricot 
finally  becomes  a  mere  shell  stuffed  with  excreta.  The 
skin,  despised  by  the  grubs,  is  a  mere  sac,  pierced  with 
holes  as  many  as  the  inhabitants  that  have  deserted  it  ; 
the  ruin  is  complete. 
The  Bruchus  pisi,  a  solitary  hermit,  consumes  only  so 
much  of  the  pea  as  will  leave  a  cell  for  the  nymph  ;  the 
rest  remains  intact,  so  that  the  pea  may  be  sown,  or  it  will 
even  serve  as  food,  if  we  can  overcome  our  repugnance. 
The  American  insect  knows  nothing  of  these  limitations  ; 
it  empties  the  haricot  completely  and  leaves  a  skinful  of 
filth  that  I  have  seen  the  pigs  refuse.  America  is  anything 
but  considerate  when  she  sends  us  her  entomological 
pests.  We  owe  the  Phylloxera  to  America ;  the  Phyl- 
loxera, that  calamitous  insect  against  which  our  vine- 
growers  wage  incessant  war :  and  to-day  she  is  sending  us 
the  haricot-weevil,  which  threatens  to  be  a  plague  of  the 
future.  A  few  experiments  gave  me  some  idea  of  the 
peril  of  such  an  invasion. 
For  nearly  three  years  there  have  stood,  on  my  labora- 
tory table,  some  dozens  of  jars  and  bottles  covered  with 
pieces  of  gauze  which  prevent  escape  while  permitting  of 
a  constant  ventilation.  These  are  the  cages  of  my 
menagerie.  In  them  I  rear  the  haricot-weevil,  varying 
the  system  of  education  at  will.    Amongst  other  things  I 
296     SOCIAL   LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
have  learned  that  this  insect,  far  from  being  exclusive 
in  its  choice,  will  accommodate  itself  to  most  of  our 
leguminous  foods. 
All  the  haricots  suit  it,  black  and  white,  red  and  varie- 
gated, large  and  small ;  those  of  the  latest  crop  and  those 
which  have  been  many  years  in  stock  and  are  almost 
completely  refractory  to  boiling  water.  The  loose  beans 
are  attacked  by  preference,  as  being  easier  to  invade, 
but  when  the  loose  beans  are  not  available  those  in  the 
natural  shelter  of  their  pods  are  attacked  with  equal  zest. 
However  dry  and  parchment-like  the  pods,  the  grubs 
have  no  difficulty  in  attaining  the  seeds.  When  attacked 
in  the  field  or  garden,  the  bean  is  attacked  in  this  way 
through  the  pod.  The  bean  known  in  Provence  as  the 
blind  haricot — loii  faioii  borgne — a  bean  with  a  long  pod, 
which  is  marked  with  a  black  spot  at  the  navel,  which 
has  the  look  of  a  closed  and  blackened  eye,  is  also  greatly 
appreciated  ;  indeed,  1  fancy  my  little  guests  show  an 
obvious  preference  for  this  particular  bean. 
So  far,  nothing  abnormal ;  the  Bruchus  does  not  wander 
beyond  the  limits  of  the  botanical  family  P/ws^o/ms.  But 
here  is  a  characteristic  that  increases  the  peril,  and  shows 
us  this  lover  of  beans  in  an  unexpected  light.  Without  the 
slightest  hesitation  it  accepts  the  dry  pea,  the  bean,  the 
vetch,  the  tare,  and  the  chick-pea ;  it  goes  from  one  to 
the  other,  always  satisfied  ;  its  offspring  live  and  prosper 
in  all  these  seeds  as  well  as  in  the  haricot.  Only  the 
lentil  is  refused,  perhaps  on  account  of  its  insufficient 
volume  The  American  weevil  is  a  formidable  experi- 
mentalist. 
The  peril  would  be  much  greater  did  the  insect  pass 
from  leguminous  seeds  to  cereals,  as  at  first  I  feared  It 
AN  INVADER  297 
might  But  it  does  not  do  so  ;  imprisoned  in  my  bottles 
together  with  a  handful  of  wheat,  barley,  rice,  or  maize, 
the  Bruchus  invariably  perished  and  left  no  offspring. 
The  result  was  the  same  with  oleaginous  seeds  :  such  as 
castor-oil  and  sunflower.  Nothing  outside  the  bean 
family  is  of  any  use  to  the  Bruchus.  Thus  limited,  its 
portion  is  none  the  less  considerable,  and  it  uses  and 
abuses  it  with  the  utmost  energy.  The  eggs  are 
white,  slender,  and  cylindrical.  There  is  no  method 
in  their  distribution,  no  choice  in  their  deposition.  The 
mother  lays  them  singly  or  in  little  groups,  on  the  walls 
of  the  jar  as  well  as  on  the  haricots.  In  her  negligence 
she  will  even  lay  them  on  maize,  coffee,  castor-oil  seeds, 
and  other  seeds,  on  which  the  newly  born  grubs  will 
promptly  perish,  not  finding  them  to  their  taste.  What 
place  has  maternal  foresight  here  ?  Abandoned  no  matter 
where  in  the  heap  of  seeds,  the  eggs  are  always  in  place, 
as  it  is  left  to  the  grub  to  search  and  to  find  the  points 
of  invasion. 
In  five  days  at  most  the  egg  is  hatched.  A  little  white 
creature  with  a  red-brown  head  emerges.  It  is  a  mere 
speck  of  a  creature,  just  visible  to  the  naked  eye.  Its 
body  is  thickened  forward,  to  give  more  strength  to  its 
implements — its  mandibles — which  have  to  perforate  the 
hard  substance  of  the  dry  bean,  which  is  as  tough  as 
wood.  The  larvae  of  the  Buprestis  and  the  Capricornis, 
which  burrow  in  the  trunks  of  trees,  are  similarly  shaped. 
Directly  it  issues  from  the  egg  the  wriggling  creature 
makes  off  at  random  with  an  activity  we  should  hardly 
expect  in  one  so  young.  It  wanders  hither  and  thither, 
eager  to  find  food  and  shelter  as  soon  as  possible. 
Within  twenty-four  hours  it  has  usually  attained  both. 
298     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
I  see  the  tiny  grub  perforate  the  horny  skin  that  covers 
the  cotyledons  ;  I  watch  its  efforts  ;  I  surprise  it  sunk 
half-way  in  the  commencement  of  a  burrow,  at  the 
mouth  of  which  is  a  white  floury  powder,  the  waste 
from  the  mandibles.  It  works  its  way  inward  and  buries 
itself  in  the  heart  of  the  seed.  It  will  emerge  in  the  adult 
form  in  the  course  of  about  five  weeks,  so  rapid  is  its 
evolution. 
This  hasty  development  allows  of  several  generations 
in  the  year.  I  have  recorded  four.  On  the  other  hand, 
one  isolated  couple  has  furnished  me  with  a  family  of 
eighty.  Consider  only  the  half  of  this  number — sup- 
posing the  sexes  to  be  equal  in  number — and  at  the 
end  of  a  year  the  couples  issued  from  this  original  pair 
would  be  represented  by  the  fortieth  power  of  forty ;  in 
larvae  they  would  represent  the  frightful  total  of  more 
than  five  millions.  What  a  mountain  of  haricots  would 
be  ravaged  by  such  a  legion  ! 
The  industry  of  the  larvae  reminds  us  at  every  point 
what  we  have  learned  from  the  Bruchus  pisi.  Each  grub 
excavates  a  lodging  in  the  mass  of  the  bean,  respecting 
the  epidermis,  and  preparing  a  circular  trap-door  which 
the  adult  can  easily  open  with  a  push  at  the  moment  of 
emergence.  At  the  termination  of  the  larval  phase  the 
lodgements  are  betrayed  on  the  surface  of  the  bean  by  so 
many  shadowy  circles.  Finally  the  lid  falls,  the  insect 
leaves  its  cell,  and  the  haricot  remains  pierced  by  as 
many  holes  as  it  has  nourished  grubs. 
Extremely  frugal,  satisfied  with  a  little  farinaceous 
powder,  the  adults  seem  by  no  means  anxious  to  aban- 
don the  native  heap  or  bin  so  long  as  there  are  beans 
untouched.     They  mate  in  the  interstices  of  the  heap ; 
AN  INVADER  299 
the  mothers  sow  their  eggs  at  random  ;  the  young  larvae 
establish  themselves  some  in  beans  that  are  so  far  intact, 
some  in  beans  which  are  perforated  but  not  yet  ex- 
hausted ;  and  all  through  the  summer  the  operations  of 
breeding  are  repeated  once  in  every  five  weeks.  The 
last  generation  of  the  year — that  of  September  or 
October — sleeps  in  its  cells  until  the  warm  weather 
returns. 
If  the  haricot  pest  were  ever  to  threaten  us  seriously 
it  would  not  be  very  difficult  to  wage  a  war  of  extermina- 
tion against  it.  Its  habits  teach  us  what  tactics  we  ought 
to  follow.  It  exploits  the  dried  and  gathered  crop  in  the 
granary  or  the  storehouse.  If  it  is  difficult  to  attack  it  in 
the  open  it  would  also  be  useless.  The  greater  part  of 
its  affairs  are  managed  elsewhere,  in  our  storehouses. 
The  enemy  establishes  itself  under  our  roof  and  is  ready 
to  our  hand.  By  means  of  insecticides  defence  should 
be  relatively  easy. 