CHAPTER   III 
THE  SONG  OF  THE  CIGALE 
Where  I  live  I  can  capture  five  species  of  Cigale,  the 
two  principal  species  being  the  common  Cigale  and  the 
variety  which  lives  on  the  flowering  ash.  Both  of  these 
are  widely  distributed  and  are  the  only  species  known 
to  the  country  folk.  The  larger  of  the  two  is  the 
common  Cigale.  Let  me  briefly  describe  the  mechanism 
with  which  it  produces  its  familiar  note. 
On  the  under  side  of  the  body  of  the  male,  imme- 
diately behind  the  posterior  limbs,  are  two  wide  semi- 
circular plates  which  slightly  overlap  one  another, 
the  right  hand  lying  over  the  left  hand  plate.  These  are 
the  shutters,  the  lids,  the  dampers  of  the  musical-box. 
Let  us  remove  them.  To  the  right  and  left  lie  two 
spacious  cavities  which  are  known  in  Provenfal  as  the 
chapels  (li  capello).  Together  they  form  the  church 
{la  gleiso).  Their  forward  limit  is  formed  by  a  creamy 
yellow  membrane,  soft  and  thin  ;  the  hinder  limit  by 
a  dry  membrane  coloured  like  a  soap  bubble  and  known 
in  Provencal  as  the  mirror  (inirau). 
The     church,    the     mirrors,    and    the    dampers     are 
commonly  regarded   as   the  organs  which    produce  the 
cry  of  the  Cigale.     Of  a  singer  out  of  breath  one  says 
a 
32    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
that  he  has  broken  his  mirrors  {a  It  miraii  creba).  The 
same  phrase  is  used  of  a  poet  without  inspiration. 
Acoustics  give  the  lie  to  the  popular  belief.  You  may 
break  the  mirrors,  remove  the  covers  with  a  snip  of  the 
scissors,  and  tear  the  yellow  anterior  membrane,  but 
these  mutilations  do  not  silence  the  song  of  the  Cigale  ; 
they  merely  change  its  quality  and  weaken  it.  The 
chapels  are  resonators ;  they  do  not  produce  the  sound, 
but  merely  reinforce  it  by  the  vibration  of  their  anterior 
and  posterior  membranes ;  while  the  sound  is  modified 
by  the  dampers  as  they  are  opened  more  or  less  widely. 
The  actual  source  of  the  sound  is  elsewhere,  and  is 
somewhat  difficult  for  a  novice  to  find.  On  the  outer 
wall  of  either  chapel,  at  the  ridge  formed  by  the  junction 
of  back  and  belly,  is  a  tiny  aperture  with  a  horny  cir- 
cumference masked  by  the  overlapping  damper.  We 
will  call  this  the  window.  This  opening  gives  access 
to  a  cavity  or  sound-chamber,  deeper  than  the  "chapels," 
but  of  much  smaller  capacity.  Immediately  behind  the 
attachment  of  the  posterior  wings  is  a  slight  pro- 
tuberance, almost  egg-shaped,  which  is  distinguishable, 
on  account  of  its  dull  black  colour,  from  the  neigh- 
bouring integuments,  which  are  covered  with  a  silvery 
down.  This  protuberance  is  the  outer  wall  of  the  sound- 
chamber. 
Let  us  cut  it  boldly  away.  We  shall  then  lay  bare  the 
mechanism  which  produces  the  sound,  the  cymbal.  This 
is  a  small  dry,  white  membrane,  oval  in  shape,  convex 
on  the  outer  side,  and  crossed  along  its  larger  diameter 
by  a  bundle  of  three  or  four  brown  nervures,  which  give 
it  elasticity.  Its  entire  circumference  is  rigidly  fixed. 
Let  us  suppose  that  this  convex  scale  is  pulled  out  of 
THE  SONG  OP  THE  CIGALB  33 
shape  from  the  interior,  so  that  it  is  slightly  flattened  and 
as  quickly  released  ;  it  will  immediately  regain  its  original 
convexity  owing  to  the  elasticity  of  the  nervures.  From 
this  oscillation  a  ticking  sound  will  result. 
Twenty  years  ago  all  Paris  was  buying  a  silly  toy, 
called,  I  think,  the  cricket  or  cri-cri.  It  was  a  short 
slip  of  steel  fixed  by  one  end  to  a  metallic  base.  Pressed 
out  of  shape  by  the  thumb  and  released,  it  yielded  a  very 
distressing,  tinkling  click.  Nothing  else  was  needed  to 
take  the  popular  mind  by  storm.  The  "  cricket "  had  its 
day  of  glory.  Oblivion  has  executed  justice  upon  it  so 
effectually  that  I  fear  I  shall  not  be  understood  when 
I  recall  this  celebrated  device. 
The  membranous  cymbal  and  the  steel  cricket  are 
analogous  instruments.  Both  produce  a  sound  by 
reason  of  the  rapid  deformation  and  recovery  of  an 
elastic  substance — in  one  case  a  convex  membrane  ; 
in  the  other  a  slip  of  steel.  The  "cricket"  was  bent 
out  of  shape  by  the  thumb.  How  is  the  convexity  of 
the  cymbals  altered?  Let  us  return  to  the  "church" 
and  break  down  the  yellow  curtain  which  closes  the 
front  of  each  chapel.  Two  thick  muscular  pillars  are 
visible,  of  a  pale  orange  colour  ;  they  join  at  an  angle, 
forming  a  V,  of  which  the  point  lies  on  the  median  line 
of  the  insect,  against  the  lower  face  of  the  thorax.  Each 
of  these  pillars  of  flesh  terminates  suddenly  at  its  upper 
extremity,  as  though  cut  short,  and  from  the  truncated 
portion  rises  a  short,  slender  tendon,  which  is  attached 
laterally  to  the  corresponding  cymbal. 
There  is  the  whole  mechanism,  no  less  simple  than 
that  of  the  steel  "cricket."  The  two  muscular  columns 
contract  and  relax,  shorten  and  lengthen.     By  means  of 
4 
84    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN   THE  INSECT  WORLD 
its  terminal  thread  each  sounds  its  cymbal,  by  depressing 
it  and  immediately  releasing  it,  when  its  own  elasticity 
makes  it  spring  back  into  shape.  These  two  vibrating 
scales  are  the  source  of  the  Cigale's  cry. 
Do  you  wish  to  convince  yourself  of  the  efficiency  of 
this  mechanism  ?  Take  a  Cigale  but  newly  dead  and 
make  it  sing.  IJothing  is  simpler.  Seize  one  of  these 
muscular  columns  with  the  forceps  and  pull  it  in  a  series 
of  careful  jerks.  The  extinct  cri-cri  comes  to  life  again  ; 
at  each  jerk  there  is  a  clash  of  the  cymbal.  The  sound 
is  feeble,  to  be  sure,  deprived  of  the  amplitude  which 
the  living  performer  is  able  to  give  it  by  means  of  his 
resonating  chambers  ;  none  the  less,  the  fundamental 
element  of  the  song  is  produced  by  this  anatomist's 
trick. 
Would  you,  on  the  other  hand,  silence  a  living  Cigale  ? 
— that  obstinate  melomaniac,  who,  seized  in  the  fingers, 
deplores  his  misfortune  as  loquaciously  as  ever  he  sang 
the  joys  of  freedom  in  his  tree  ?  It  is  useless  to  violate 
his  chapels,  to  break  his  mirrors;  the  atrocious  mutilation 
would  not  quiet  him.  But  introduce  a  needle  by  the 
lateral  aperture  which  we  have  named  the  "window" 
and  prick  the  cymbal  at  the  bottom  of  the  sound-box. 
A  little  touch  and  the  perforated  cymbal  is  silent.  A 
similar  operation  on  the  other  side  of  the  insect  and  the 
insect  is  dumb,  though  otherwise  as  vigorous  as  before 
and  without  any  perceptible  wound.  Any  one  not  in  the 
secret  would  be  amazed  at  the  result  of  my  pin-prick, 
when  the  destruction  of  the  mirrors  and  the  other 
dependencies  of  the  "church"  do  not  cause  silence. 
A  tiny  perforation  of  no  importance  to  the  insect  is 
more  'effectual  than  evisceration. 
THE  SONG  OF  THE   CIGALE  35 
The  dampers,  which  are  rigid  and  soHdly  built,  are 
motionless.  It  is  the  abdomen  itself  which,  by  rising 
and  falling,  opens  or  closes  the  doors  of  the  "  church." 
When  the  abdomen  is  lowered  the  dampers  exactly 
cover  the  chapels  as  well  as  the  windows  of  the  sound- 
boxes. The  sound  is  then  muted,  muffled,  diminished. 
When  the  abdomen  rises  the  chapels  are  open,  the 
windows  unobstructed,  and  the  sound  acquires  its  full 
volume.  The  rapid  oscillations  of  the  abdomen,  syn- 
chronising with  the  contractions  of  the  motor  muscles 
of  the  cymbals,  determine  the  changing  volume  of  the 
sound,  which  seems  to  be  caused  by  rapidly  repeated 
strokes  of  a  fiddlestick. 
If  the  weather  is  calm  and  hot,  towards  mid-day  the 
song  of  the  Cigale  is  divided  into  strophes  of  several 
seconds'  duration,  which  are  separated  by  brief  intervals 
of  silence.  The  strophe  begins  suddenly.  In  a  rapid 
crescendo,  the  abdomen  oscillating  with  increasing 
rapidity,  it  acquires  its  maximum  volume  ;  it  remains 
for  a  few  seconds  at  the  same  degree  of  intensity,  then 
becomes  weaker  by  degrees,  and  degenerates  into  a 
shake,  which  decreases  as  the  abdomen  returns  to  rest. 
With  the  last  pulsations  of  the  belly  comes  silence  ;  the 
length  of  the  silent  interval  varies  according  to  the  stat* 
of  the  atmosphere.  Then,  of  a  sudden,  begins  a  new 
strophe,  a  monotonous  repetition  of  the  first ;  and  so 
on  indefinitely. 
It  often  happens,  especially  during  the  hours  of  the 
sultry  afternoons,  that  the  insect,  intoxicated  with  sun 
light,   shortens    and    even    suppresses   the    intervals    of 
silence.     The  song  is  then  continuous,  but  always  with 
an  alternation  of  crescendo  and  diminuendo.     The  first 
38    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
notes  are  heard  about  seven  or  eight  o'clock  in  the 
morning,  and  the  orchestra  ceases  only  when  the  twi- 
Hght  fails,  about  eight  o'clock  at  night.  The  concert 
lasts  a  whole  round  of  the  clock.  But  if  the  sky  is  grey 
and  the  wind  chilly  the  Cigale  is  silent. 
The  second  species,  only  half  the  size  of  the  common 
Cigale,  is  known  in  Provence  as  the  Cacan  ;  the  name 
being  a  fairly  exact  imitation  of  the  sound  emitted  by 
the  insect.  This  is  the  Cigale  of  the  flowering  ash,  far 
more  alert  and  far  more  suspicious  than  the  common 
species.  Its  harsh,  loud  song  consists  of  a  series  of  cries 
— can  !  can  I  can  /  can  ! — with  no  intervals  of  silence 
subdividing  the  poem  into  stanzas.  Thanks  to  its 
monotony  and  its  harsh  shrillness,  it  is  a  most  odious 
sound,  especially  when  the  orchestra  consists  of  hundreds 
of  performers,  as  is  often  the  case  in  my  two  plane-trees 
during  the  dog-days.  It  is  as  though  a  heap  of  dry 
walnuts  were  being  shaken  up  in  a  bag  until  the  shells 
broke.  This  painful  concert,  which  is  a  real  torment, 
offers  only  one  compensation :  the  Cigale  of  the  flower- 
ing ash  does  not  begin  his  song  so  early  as  the  common 
Cigale,  and  does  not  sing  so  late  in  the  evening. 
Although  constructed  on  the  same  fundamental 
principles,  the  vocal  organs  exhibit  a  number  of  peculi- 
arities which  give  the  song  its  special  character.  The 
sound-box  is  lacking,  which  suppresses  the  entrance  to 
it,  or  the  window.  The  cymbal  is  uncovered,  and  is 
visible  just  behind  the  attachment  of  the  hinder  wing. 
It  is,  as  before,  a  dry  white  scale,  convex  on  the  outside, 
and  crossed  by  a  bundle  of  fine  reddish-brown 
nervures. 
From  the  forward   side   of  the  first   segment  of  the 
1.  THE    ADULT   CIGALE,    FROM    BELOW. 
2.  THE   ADULT   CIGALE,    FROM    BELOW. 
3.   THE   CIGALE   OF  THE   FLOWERING   ASH,   MALE   AND   FEMALE. 
THE  SONG  OF  THE  CIGALE  37 
abdomen  project  two  short,  wide,  tongue-shaped 
projections,  the  free  extremities  of  which  rest  on  the 
cymbals.  These  tongues  may  be  compared  to  the  blade 
of  a  watchman's  rattle,  only  instead  of  engaging  with  the 
teeth  of  a  rotating  wheel  they  touch  the  nervures  of  the 
vibrating  cymbal.  From  this  fact,  I  imagine,  results 
the  harsh,  grating  quality  of  the  cry.  It  is  hardly 
possible  to  verify  the  fact  by  holding  the  insect  in  the 
fingers ;  the  terrified  Cacan  does  not  go  on  singing 
his  usual  song, 
The  dampers  do  not  overlap  ;  on  the  contrary,  they 
are  separated  by  a  fairly  wide  interval.  With  the  rigid 
tongues,  appendages  of  the  abdomen,  they  half  shelter 
the  cymbals,  half  of  which  is  completely  bare.  Under 
the  pressure  of  the  finger  the  abdomen  opens  a  little 
at  its  articulation  with  the  thorax.  But  the  insect  is 
motionless  when  it  sings  ;  there  is  nothing  of  the 
rapid  vibrations  of  the  belly  which  modulate  the  song 
of  the  common  Cigale.  The  chapels  are  very  small  ; 
almost  negligible  as  resonators.  There  are  mirrors,  as 
in  the  common  Cigale,  but  they  are  very  small  ;  scarcely 
a  twenty-fifth  of  an  inch  in  diameter.  In  short,  the 
resonating  mechanism,  so  highly  developed  in  the 
common  Cigale,  is  here  extremely  rudimentary.  How 
then  is  the  feeble  vibration  of  the  cymbals  re-enforced 
until  it  becomes  intolerable  ? 
This  species  of  Cigale  is  a  ventriloquist.  If  we 
examine  the  abdomen  by  transmitted  light,  we  shall  see 
that  the  anterior  two-thirds  of  the  abdomen  are  trans- 
lucent. With  a  snip  of  the  scissors  we  will  cut  off 
the  posterior  third,  to  which  are  relegated,  reduced  to 
the  strictly  indispensable,  the    organs  necessary  to   the 
38    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
propagation  of  the  species  and  the  preservation  of  the 
individual.  The  rest  of  the  abdomen  presents  a  spacious 
cavity,  and  consists  simply  of  the  integuments  of  the 
walls,  except  on  the  dorsal  side,  which  is  Hned  with 
a  thin  muscular  layer,  and  supports  a  fine  digestive 
canal,  almost  a  thread.  This  large  cavity,  equal  to 
nearly  half  the  total  volume  of  the  insect,  is  thus 
almost  absolutely  empty.  At  the  back  are  seen  the 
two  motor  muscles  of  the  cymbals,  two  muscular 
columns  arranged  like  the  limbs  of  a  V.  To  right 
and  left  of  the  point  of  this  V  shine  the  tiny  mirrors  ; 
and  between  the  two  branches  of  muscle  the  empty 
cavity  is  prolonged  into  the  depths  of  the  thorax. 
This  empty  abdomen  with  its  thoracic  annex  forms 
an  enormous  resonator,  such  as  no  other  performer  in 
our  country-side  can  boast  of.  If  I  close  with  my  finger 
the  orifice  of  the  truncated  abdomen  the  sound  becomes 
flatter,  in  conformity  with  the  laws  affecting  musical 
resonators  ;  if  I  fit  into  the  aperture  of  the  open  body 
a  tube  or  trumpet  of  paper  the  sound  grows  louder  as 
well  as  deeper.  With  a  paper  cone  corresponding  to 
the  pitch  of  the  note,  with  its  large  end  held  in  the 
mouth  of  a  test-tube  acting  as  a  resonator,  we  have  no 
longer  the  cry  of  the  Cigale,  but  almost  the  bellowing  of  a 
bull.  My  little  children,  coming  up  to  me  by  chance  at 
the  moment  of  this  acoustic  experiment,  fled  in  terror. 
The  grating  quality  of  the  sound  appears  to  be  due 
to  the  little  tongues  which  press  on  the  nervures  of  the 
vibrating  cymbals  ;  the  cause  of  its  intensity  is  of  course 
the  ample  resonator  in  the  abdomen.  We  must  admit 
that  one  must  truly  have  a  real  passion  for  song  before 
one  would  empty  one's  chest  and  stomach  in  order  to 
THE   SONG  OF  THE   CIGALE  ^9 
make  room  for  a  musical-box.  The  necessary  vital 
organs  are  extremely  small,  confined  to  a  mere  corner  of 
the  body,  in  order  to  increase  the  amplitude  of  the 
resonating  cavity.  Song  comes  first  of  all  ;  other  matters 
take  the  second  rank. 
It  is  lucky  that  the  Cacan  does  not  follow  the  laws  of 
evolution.  If,  more  enthusiastic  in  each  generation,  it 
could  acquire,  in  the  course  of  progress,  a  ventral 
resonator  comparable  to  my  paper  trumpets,  the  South  of 
France  would  sooner  or  later  become  uninhabitable, 
and  the  Cacan  would  have  Provence  to  itself. 
After  the  details  already  given  concerning  the  common 
Cigale  it  is  hardly  needful  to  tell  you  how  the  insupport- 
able Cacan  can  be  reduced  to  silence.  The  cymbals  are 
plainly  visible  on  the  exterior.  Pierce  them  with  the 
point  of  a  needle,  and  immediately  you  have  perfect 
silence.  If  only  there  were,  in  my  plane-trees,  among 
the  insects  which  carry  gimlets,  some  friends  of  silence 
like  myself,  who  would  devote  themselves  to  such  a  task  ! 
But  no:  a  note  would  be  lacking  in  the  majestic 
symphony  of  harvest-tide. 
We  are  now  famihar  with  the  structure  of  the  musical 
organ  of  the  Cigale.  Now  the  question  arises  :  What 
is  the  object  of  these  musical  orgies  ?  The  reply  seems 
obvious  :  they  are  the  call  of  the  males  inviting  their 
mates  ;  they  constitute  a  lovers'  cantata. 
I  am  going  to  consider  this  reply,  which  is  certainly  a 
very  natural  one.  For  thirty  years  the  common  Cigale 
and  his  unmusical  friend  the  Cacan  have  thrust  their  society 
upon  me.  For  two  months  every  summer  I  have  them 
under  my  eyes,  and  their  voice  in  my  ears.  If  I  do  not 
listen  to  them  very  willingly  I  observe  them  with  con- 
40    SOCIAL  LITE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
siderable  zeal.  I  see  them  ranged  in  rows  on  the  smooth 
rind  of  the  plane-trees,  all  with  their  heads  uppermost, 
the  two  sexes  mingled,  and  only  a  few  inches  apart. 
The  proboscis  thrust  into  the  bark,  they  drink,  motion- 
less. As  the  sun  moves,  and  with  it  the  shadow,  they 
also  move  round  the  branch  with  slow  lateral  steps,  so 
as  to  keep  upon  that  side  which  is  most  brilliantly  illu- 
minated, most  fiercely  heated.  Whether  the  proboscis 
is  at  work  or  not  the  song  is  never  interrupted. 
Now  are  we  to  take  their  interminable  chant  for  a 
passionate  love-song  ?  I  hesitate.  In  this  gathering  the 
two  sexes  are  side  by  side.  One  does  not  spend  months 
in  calling  a  person  who  is  at  one's  elbow.  Moreover,  I 
have  never  seen  a  female  rush  into  the  midst  of  even  the 
most  deafening  orchestra.  Sight  is  a  sufficient  prelude 
to  marriage,  for  their  sight  is  excellent.  There  is  no 
need  for  the  lover  to  make  an  everlasting  declaration,  for 
his  mistress  is  his  next-door  neighbour. 
Is  the  song  a  means  of  charming,  of  touching  the  hard 
of  heart  ?  I  doubt  it.  I  observe  no  sign  of  satisfaction 
in  the  females  ;  I  have  never  seen  them  tremble  or  sway 
upon  their  feet,  though  their  lovers  have  clashed  their 
cymbals  with  the  most  deafening  vigour. 
My  neighbours  the  peasants  say  that  at  harvest-time 
the  Cigale  sings  to  them  :  Sego,  sego,  sego !  (Reap,  reap, 
reap  1)  to  encourage  them  in  their  work.  Harvesters  of 
ideas  and  of  ears  of  grain,  we  follow  the  same  calling  ; 
the  latter  produce  food  for  the  stomach,  the  former  food 
for  the  mind.  Thus  I  understand  their  explanation  and 
welcome  it  as  an  example  of  gracious  simplicity. 
Science  asks  for  a  better  explanation,  but  finds  in  the 
insect  a  world  which  is  closed  to  us.      There  is  no  possi- 
THE   SONG  OF  THE   CIGALK  41 
bility  of  foreseeing,  or  even  of  suggesting  the  impression 
produced  by  this  clashing  of  cymbals  upon  those  who 
inspire  it.  The  most  I  can  say  is  that  their  impassive 
exterior  seems  to  denote  a  complete  indifference.  I  do 
not  insist  that  this  is  so  ;  the  intimate  feelings  of  the 
insect  are  an  insoluble  mystery. 
Another  reason  for  doubt  is  this  :  all  creatures  affected 
by  song  have  acute  hearing,  and  this  sense  of  hearing,  a 
vigilant  sentinel,  should  give  warning  of  danger  at  the 
slightest  sound.  The  birds  have  an  exquisite  delicacy 
of  hearing.  If  a  leaf  stirs  among  the  branches,  if  two 
passers-by  exchange  a  word,  they  are  suddenly  silent, 
anxious,  and  on  their  guard.  But  the  Cigale  is  far  from 
sharing  in  such  emotions.  It  has  excellent  sight.  Its 
great  faceted  eyes  inform  it  of  all  that  happens  to  right 
and  left;  its  three  stemmata,  like  little  ruby  telescopes, 
explore  the  sky  above  its  head.  If  it  sees  us  coming  it  is 
silent  at  once,  and  flies  away.  But  let  us  get  behind  the 
branch  on  which  it  is  singing  ;  let  us  manoeuvre  so  as  to 
avoid  the  five  centres  of  vision,  and  then  let  us  speak, 
whistle,  clap  the  hands,  beat  two  stones  together.  For 
far  less  a  bird  which  could  not  see  you  would  stop  its 
song  and  fly  away  terrified.  The  Cigale  imperturbably 
continues  to  sing  as  if  nothing  had  occurred. 
Of  my  experiences  of  this  kind  I  will  mention  only  one, 
the  most  remarkable  of  many. 
I  borrowed  the  municipal  artillery  ;  that  is,  the  iron 
boxes  which  are  charged  with  gunpowder  on  the  day  of 
the  patron  saint.  The  artilleryman  was  delighted  to  load 
them  for  the  benefit  of  the  Cigales,  and  to  fire  them  ofl  for 
me  before  my  house.  There  were  two  of  these  boxes, 
stuffed  full  of  powder  as  though  for  the  most  solemn 
42    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
rejoicing.  Never  was  politician  making  his  electoral 
progress  favoured  with  a  bigger  charge.  To  prevent 
damage  to  my  windows  the  sashes  were  all  left  open. 
The  two  engines  of  detonation  were  placed  at  the  foot  of 
the  plane-trees  before  my  door,  no  precautions  being 
taken  to  mask  them.  The  Cigales  singing  in  the 
branches  above  could  not  see  what  was  happening 
below. 
There  were  six  of  us,  spectators  and  auditors.  We 
waited  for  a  moment  of  relative  quiet.  The  number  of 
singers  was  counted  by  each  of  us,  as  well  as  the  volume 
and  rhythm  of  the  song.  We  stood  ready,  our  ears 
attentive  to  the  aerial  orchestra.  The  box  exploded  with 
a  clap  of  thunder. 
No  disturbance  ensued  above.  The  number  of  per- 
formers was  the  same,  the  rhythm  the  same,  the 
volume  the  same.  The  six  witnesses  were  unanimous  : 
the  loud  explosion  had  not  modified  the  song  of  the 
Cigales  in  the  least.  The  second  box  gave  an  identical 
result. 
What  are  we  to  conclude  from  this  persistence  of  the 
orchestra,  its  lack  of  surprise  or  alarm  at  the  firing  of  a 
charge  ?  Shall  we  conclude  that  the  Cigale  is  deaf  ?  I 
am  not  going  to  venture  so  far  as  that ;  but  if  any  one 
bolder  than  myself  were  to  make  the  assertion  I  really 
do  not  know  what  reasons  I  could  invoke  to  disprove  it. 
I  should  at  least  be  forced  to  admit  that  it  is  very  hard 
of  hearing,  and  that  we  may  well  apply  to  it  the  homely 
and  familiar  phrase  :  to  shout  like  a  deaf  man. 
When  the  blue-winged  cricket,  basking  on  the  pebbles 
of  some  country  footpath,  grows  deliciously  intoxicated 
with  the  heat  of   the  sun  and  rubs  its  great  posterior 
THE   SONG   OF   THE    CIGALE  43 
thighs  against  the  roughened  edge  of  its  wing-covers  ; 
when  the  green  tree-frog  swells  its  throat  in  the  foliage 
of  the  bushes,  distending  it  to  form  a  resonant  cavity 
when  the  rain  is  imminent,  is  it  calling  to  its  absent 
mate  ?  By  no  means.  The  efforts  of  the  former  produce 
a  scarcely  perceptible  stridulation  ;  the  palpitating  throat 
of  the  latter  is  as  ineffectual ;  and  the  desired  one  does 
not  come. 
Does  the  insect  really  require  to  emit  these  resounding 
effusions,  these  vociferous  avowaJs,  in  order  to  declare 
its  passion  ?  Consult  the  immense  majority  whom  the 
conjunction  of  the  sexes  leaves  silent.  In  the  violin  of 
the  grasshopper,  the  bagpipe  of  the  tree-frog,  and  the 
cymbals  of  the  Cacan  I  see  only  their  peculiar  means  of 
expressing  the  joy  of  living,  the  universal  joy  which 
every  species  of  animal  expresses  after  its  kind. 
If  you  were  to  tell  me  that  the  Cigales  play  on  their 
noisy  instruments  careless  of  the  sound  produced,  and 
merely  for  the  pleasure  of  feeling  themselves  alive,  just  as 
we  rub  our  hands  in  a  moment  of  satisfaction,  I  should 
not  be  particularly  shocked.  That  there  is  a  secondary 
object  in  their  concert,  in  which  the  silent  sex  is  interested, 
is  very  possible  and  very  natural,  but  it  is  not  as  yet 
proven.^ 
'  \Miether  the  Cigale  is  absolutely  deaf  or  not,  it  is  certain  that 
one  Cigale  would  be  able  to  perceive  another's  cry.  The  vibrations 
of  the  male  Cigale's  cry  would  cause  a  resonance,  a  vibration,  in  the 
body  cavities  of  other  male  Cigales,  and  to  a  lesser  extent  in  the 
smaller  cavities  in  the  bodies  of  the  females.  Other  sounds  would 
cause  a  slight  shock,  if  loud  enough,  but  not  a  perceptible  vibration. 
May  not  this  \*ibration — felt  as  in  a  cathedral  we  feel  the  vibrations 
of  the  organ-pipes  in  the  bones  of  the  chest  and  head  or  on  the 
covers  of  the  hjTnn-book  in  cur  hands — sen-e  :o  keep  the  insects 
together,  and  eoable  the  females  to  keep  within  sight  of  the  males  ? 
44    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
The  sight  of  an  insect  is  in  one  sense  poor — it  consists  of  a  kind  of 
mosaic  picture,  and  for  one  insect  to  distinguish  another  clearly  the 
distance  between  them  must  not  be  very  great.  Certain  gregarious 
birds  and  fish  whose  colouring  is  protective  have  a  habit  of  showing 
their  white  beUies  as  they  swerve  on  changing  their  direction. 
These  signals  help  to  keep  the  flock  together.  The  white  scut  of 
the  rabbit  and  of  certain  deer  is  a  signal  for  other  deer  or  rabbits  to 
follow  a  frighteaed  flock.  It  is  obviously  to  the  advantage  of  the 
Cigale  to  follow  a  gregarious  habit,  if  only  for  purposes  of  propaga- 
tion, for  this  would  be  facilitated  by  the  sexes  keeping  together, 
and,  deaf  or  otherwise,  the  vibrations  of  its  cry  would  enable  it  to 
do  so.  It  would  be  easy  to  show  a  priori  that  the  perception  of 
such  vibrations  must  cause  the  insect  pleasure,  as  they  stimulate  a 
nervous  structure  attuned  to  the  perception  or  capable  of  the  pro- 
duction of  certain  complex  vibrations.  The  discord  of  the  cry  is 
caused  by  the  fact  that  it  consists  of  a  number  of  vibrations  of 
different  pitch.  Some  would  set  the  contents  of  the  male  resonating 
cavities  in  vibration  ;  others  would  affect  the  less  regular  cavities 
in  the  thorax  of  the  female.  We  might  compare  the  Cigale's  cry  to 
a  sheep-bell.  That  it  is  felt  and  not  heard  explains  its  loudness  and 
its  grating  quality.  A  Cigale  with  the  resonating  cavities  destroyed 
would  possibly  be  lost.     The  experiment  is  worth  trying. — [Trans.T 