CHAPTER   XIII 
A  bee-hunter:  the  philanthus  aviporus 
To  encounter  among  the  Hymenoptera,  those  ardent 
lovers  of  flowers,  a  species  which  goes  a-hunting  on 
its  own  account  is,  to  say  the  least  of  it,  astonishing. 
That  the  larder  of  the  larvae  should  be  provisioned  with 
captured  prey  is  natural  enough  ;  but  that  the  provider, 
whose  diet  is  honey,  should  itself  devour  its  captives 
is  a  fact  both  unexpected  and  difficult  to  comprehend. 
We  are  surprised  that  a  drinker  of  nectar  should  become 
a  drinker  of  blood.  But  our  surprise  abates  if  we  con- 
sider the  matter  closely.  The  double  diet  is  more 
apparent  than  real  ;  the  stomach  which  fills  itself  with 
the  nectar  of  flowers  does  not  gorge  itself  with  flesh. 
When  she  perforates  the  rump  of  her  victim  the  Odynerus 
does  not  touch  the  flesh,  which  is  a  diet  absolutely  con- 
trary to  her  tastes  ;  she  confines  herself  to  drinking  the 
defensive  liquid  which  the  grub  distils  at  the  end  of  its 
intestine.  For  her  this  liquid  is  doubtless  a  beverage  of 
delicious  flavour,  with  which  she  relieves  from  time  to 
time  her  staple  diet  of  the  honey  distilled  by  flowers, 
some  highly  spiced  condiment,  appetiser  or  aperient,  or 
perhaps — who  knows  ? — a  substitute  for  honey.  Al- 
though the  qualities  of  the  liquid  escape  me,  I  see  at 
IfiO 
A  BEE-HUNTER  151 
least  that  Odynerus  cares  nothing  for  the  rest.  Once  the 
pouch  is  emptied  the  larva  is  abandoned  as  useless  offal, 
a  certain  sign  of  non-carnivorous  appetites.  Under  these 
conditions  the  persecutor  of  Chrysomela  can  no  longer 
be  regarded  as  guilty  of  an  unnatural  double  dietary. 
We  may  even  wonder  whether  other  species  also  are 
not  apt  to  draw  some  direct  profit  from  the  hunting 
imposed  upon  them  by  the  needs  of  the  family.  The 
procedure  of  Odynerus  in  opening  the  anal  pouch  is 
so  far  removed  from  the  usual  that  we  should  not  antici- 
pate many  imitators ;  it  is  a  secondary  detail,  and  im- 
practicable with  game  of  a  different  kind.  But  there 
may  well  be  a  certain  amount  of  variety  in  the  means  of 
direct  utilisation.  Why,  for  example,  when  the  victim 
which  has  just  been  paralysed  or  rendered  insensible  by 
stinging  contains  in  the  stomach  a  delicious  meal,  semi- 
liquid  or  liquid  in  consistency,  should  the  hunter  scruple 
to  rob  the  half-living  body  and  force  it  to  disgorge  with- 
out injuring  the  quality  of  its  flesh  ?  There  may  well  be 
robbers  of  the  moribund,  attracted  not  by  their  flesh  but 
by  the  appetising  contents  of  their  stomachs. 
As  a  matter  of  fact  there  are  such,  and  they  are 
numerous.  In  the  first  rank  we  may  cite  that  hunter 
of  the  domestic  bee,  Philanthus  aviporus  (Latreille).  For 
a  long  time  I  suspected  Philanthus  of  committing  such 
acts  of  brigandage  for  her  own  benefit,  having  many 
times  surprised  her  gluttonously  licking  the  honey- 
smeared  mouth  of  the  bee  ;  I  suspected  that  her  hunting 
of  the  bee  was  not  undertaken  entirely  for  the  benefit  of 
her  larvae.  The  suspicion  was  worth  experimental  con- 
firmation. At  the  time  I  was  interested  in  another 
question  also  :  I  wanted  to  study,  absolutely  at  leisure, 
152     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
the  methods  by  which  the  various  predatory  species  dealt 
with  their  victims.  In  the  case  of  Philanthus  I  made  use 
of  the  improvised  cage  already  described  ;  and  Philan- 
thus it  was  who  furnished  me  with  my  first  data  on  the 
subject.  She  responded  to  my  hopes  with  such  energy 
that  I  thought  myself  in  possession  of  an  unequalled 
method  of  observation,  by  means  of  which  I  could 
witness  again  and  again,  to  satiety  even,  incidents  of  a 
kind  so  difficult  to  surprise  in  a  state  of  nature.  Alas  ! 
the  early  days  of  my  acquaintance  with  Philanthus 
promised  me  more  than  the  future  had  in  store  for  me  ! 
Not  to  anticipate,  however,  let  us  place  under  the  bell- 
glass  the  hunter  and  the  game.  I  recommend  the  experi- 
ment to  whomsoever  would  witness  the  perfection  with 
which  the  predatory  Hymenoptera  use  their  stings.  The 
result  is  not  in  doubt  and  the  waiting  is  short ;  the 
moment  the  prey  is  perceived  in  an  attitude  favourable  to 
her  designs,  the  bandit  rushes  at  it,  and  all  is  over.  In 
detail,  the  tragedy  develops  as  follows  : 
I  place  under  a  bell-glass  a  Philanthus  and  two  or 
three  domestic  bees.  The  prisoners  climb  the  glass  walls, 
on  the  more  strongly  lighted  side  ;  they  ascend,  descend, 
and  seek  to  escape  ;  the  polished,  vertical  surface  is  for 
them  quite  easy  to  walk  upon.  They  presently  quiet 
down,  and  the  brigand  begins  to  notice  her  surroundings. 
The  antennae  point  forward,  seeking  information  ;  the 
hinder  legs  are  drawn  up  with  a  slight  trembling,  as  of 
greed  and  rapacity,  in  the  thighs;  the  head  turns  to  the 
ri<£ht  and  the  left,  and  follows  the  evolutions  of  the  bees 
against  the  glass.  The  posture  of  the  scoundrelly  insect 
is  strikingly  expressive  ;  one  reads  in  it  the  brutal  desires 
of  a  creature  in  ambush,  the  cunning  patience  that  post- 
A  BEE-HUNTER  153 
pones  attack.    The    choice    is    made,   and    Philanthus 
throws  herself  upon  her  victim. 
Turn  by  turn  tumbled  and  tumbling,  the  two  insects 
roll  over  and  over.  But  the  struggle  soon  quiets  down, 
and  the  assassin  commences  to  plunder  her  prize.  I  have 
seen  her  adopt  two  methods.  In  the  first,  more  usual 
than  the  other,  the  bee  is  lying  on  the  ground,  upon 
its  back,  and  Philanthus,  mouth  to  mouth  and  abdomen 
to  abdomen,  clasps  it  with  her  six  legs,  while  she  seizes  its 
neck  in  her  mandibles.  The  abdomen  is  then  curved 
forward  and  gropes  for  a  moment  for  the  desired  spot  in 
the  upper  part  of  the  thorax,  which  it  finally  reaches. 
The  sting  plunges  into  the  victim,  remains  in  the  wound 
for  a  moment,  and  all  is  over.  Without  loosing  the 
victim,  which  is  still  tightly  clasped,  the  murderer  restores 
her  abdomen  to  the  normal  position  and  holds  it  pressed 
against  that  of  the  bee. 
By  the  second  method  Philanthus  operates  standing 
upright.  Resting  on  the  hinder  feet  and  the  extremity 
of  the  folded  wings,  she  rises  proudly  to  a  vertical  posi- 
tion, holding  the  bee  facing  her  by  her  four  anterior 
claws.  In  order  to  get  the  bee  into  the  proper  position 
for  the  final  stroke,  she  swings  the  poor  creature  round 
and  back  again  with  the  careless  roughness  of  a  child 
dandling  a  doll.  Her  pose  is  magnificent,  solidly  based 
upon  her  sustaining  tripod,  the  two  posterior  thighs  and 
the  end  of  the  wings,  she  flexes  the  abdomen  forwards  and 
upwards,  and,  as  before,  stings  the  bee  in  the  upper  part 
of  the  thorax.  The  originality  of  her  pose  at  the  moment 
of  striking  surpasses  anything  I  have  ever  witnessed. 
The  love  of  knowledge  in  matters  of  natural  history  is 
not  without  its  cruelties.     To  make  absolutely  certain  of 
154     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
the  point  attained  by  the  sting,  and  to  inform  myself 
completely  concerning  this  horrible  talent  for  murder,  I 
have  provoked  I  dare  not  confess  how  many  assassina- 
tions in  captivity.  Without  a  single  exception,  the  bee 
has  always  been  stung  in  the  throat.  In  the  preparations 
for  the  final  blow  the  extremity  of  the  abdomen  may 
of  course  touch  here  and  there,  at  different  points  of  the 
thorax  or  abdomen,  but  it  never  remains  there,  nor  is  the 
the  sting  unsheathed,  as  may  easily  be  seen.  Once  the 
struggle  has  commenced  the  Philanthus  is  so  absorbed  in 
her  operations  that  I  can  remove  the  glass  cover  and 
follow  every  detail  of  the  drama  with  my  magnifying- 
glass. 
The  invariable  situation  of  the  wound  being  proved,  I 
bend  back  the  head  of  the  bee,  so  as  to  open  the  articula- 
tion. I  see  under  what  we  may  call  the  chin  of  the  bee 
a  white  spot,  hardly  a  twenty-fifth  of  an  inch  square, 
where  the  horny  integuments  are  lacking,  and  the  fine 
skin  is  exposed  uncovered.  It  is  there,  always  there,  in 
that  tiny  defect  in  the  bee's  armour,  that  the  sting  is 
inserted.  Why  is  this  point  attacked  rather  than  another  ? 
Is  it  the  only  point  that  is  vulnerable  ?  Stretch  open  the 
articulation  of  the  corselet  to  the  rear  of  the  first  pair  of 
legs.  There  you  will  see  an  area  of  defenceless  skin,  fully 
as  delicate  as  that  of  the  throat,  but  much  more  exten- 
sive. The  horny  armour  of  the  bee  has  no  larger  breach. 
If  the  Philanthus  were  guided  solely  by  considerations  of 
vulnerability  she  would  certainly  strike  there,  instead  of 
insistently  seeking  the  narrow  breach  in  the  throat.  The 
sting  would  not  grope  or  hesitate,  it  would  find  its  mark 
at  the  first  attempt.  No  ;  the  poisoned  thrust  is  not  con- 
ditioned  by  mechanical   considerations ;   the   murderer 
A  BEE-HUNTER  155 
disdains  the  wide  breach  in  the  corselet  and  piefers  the 
lesser  one  beneath  the  chin,  for  purely  logical  reasons 
which  we  will  now  attempt  to  elicit. 
The  moment  the  bee  is  stung  I  release  it  from  the 
aggressor.  I  am  struck  in  the  first  place  by  the  sudden 
inertia  of  the  antennae  and  the  various  members 
of  the  mouth  ;  organs  which  continue  to  move  for  so 
long  a  time  in  the  victims  of  most  predatory  creatures.  I 
see  none  of  the  indications  with  which  my  previous 
studies  of  paralysed  victims  have  made  me  familiar : 
the  antennae  slowly  waving,  the  mandibles  opening  and 
closing,  the  palpas  trembling  for  days,  for  weeks,  even 
for  months.  The  thighs  tremble  for  a  minute  or  two  at 
most ;  and  the  struggle  is  over.  Henceforth  there  is 
complete  immobility.  The  significance  of  this  sudden 
inertia  is  forced  upon  me  :  the  Philanthus  has  stabbed 
the  cervical  ganglions.  Hence  the  sudden  immobility  of 
all  the  organs  of  the  head  :  hence  the  real,  not  the 
apparent  death  of  the  bee.  The  Philanthus  does  not 
paralyse  merely,  but  kills. 
This  is  one  step  gained.  The  murderer  chooses  the 
point  below  the  chin  as  the  point  of  attack,  in  order  to 
reach  the  principal  centres  of  innervation,  the  cephalic 
ganglions,  and  thus  to  abolish  life  at  a  single  blow.  The 
vital  centres  being  poisoned,  immediate  death  must  follow. 
If  the  object  of  the  Philanthus  were  merely  to  cause 
paralysis  she  would  plunge  her  sting  into  the  defective 
corselet,  as  does  the  Cerceris  in  attacking  the  weevil, 
whose  armour  is  quite  unlike  the  bee's.  Her  aim  is  to  kill 
outright,  as  we  shall  presently  see  ;  she  wants  a  corpse,  not 
a  paralytic.  We  must  admit  that  her  technique  is  admir- 
able ;  our  human  murderers  could  do  no  better. 
156    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
Her  posture  of  attack,  which  is  very  different  to  that  of 
the  paralysers,  is  infallibly  fatal  to  the  victim.  Whether 
she  delivers  the  attack  in  the  erect  position  or  prone,  she 
holds  the  bee  before  her,  head  to  head  and  thorax  to  thorax. 
In  this  position  it  suffices  to  flex  the  abdomen  in  order 
to  reach  the  joint  of  the  neck,  and  to  plunge  the  sting 
obliquely  upwards  into  the  head  of  the  captive.  If  the 
bee  were  seized  in  the  inverse  position,  or  if  the  sting 
were  to  go  slightly  astray,  the  results  would  be  totally 
different ;  the  sting,  penetrating  the  bee  in  a  downward 
direction,  would  poison  the  first  thoracic  ganglion  and 
provoke  a  partial  paralysis  only.  What  art,  to  destroy  a 
miserable  bee  1  In  what  fencing-school  did  the  slayer 
learn  that  terrible  upward  thrust  beneath  the  chin  ? 
And  as  she  has  learned  it,  how  is  it  that  her  victim,  so 
learned  in  matters  of  architecture,  so  conversant  with  the 
politics  of  Socialism,  has  so  far  learned  nothing  in  her  own 
defence?  As  vigorous  as  the  aggressor,  she  also  carries 
a  rapier,  which  is  even  more  formidable  and  more  pain- 
ful in  its  results — at  all  events,  when  ray  finger  is  the 
victim !  For  centuries  and  centuries  Philanthus  has 
stored  her  cellars  with  the  corpses  of  bees,  yet  the 
innocent  victim  submits,  and  the  annual  decimation  of 
her  race  has  not  taught  her  how  to  deliver  herself  from 
the  scourge  by  a  well-directed  thrust.  I  am  afraid  I  shall 
never  succeed  in  understanding  how  it  is  that  the  assailant 
has  acquired  her  genius  for  sudden  murder  while  the 
assailed,  better  armed  and  no  less  powerful,  uses  her  dagger 
at  random,  and  so  far  without  effect.  If  the  one  has 
learned  something  from  the  prolonged  exercise  of  the 
attack,  then  the  other  should  also  have  learned  something 
from  the  prolonged  exercise  of  defence,  for  attack  and 
A  BEE-HUNTER  157 
defence  are  of  equal  significance  in  the  struggle  for  life. 
Among  the  theorists  of  our  day,  is  there  any  so  far- 
sighted  as  to  be  able  to  solve  this  enigma  ? 
I  will  take  this  opportunity  of  presenting  a  second 
point  which  embarrasses  me;  it  is  the  carelessness — it 
is  worse  than  that — the  imbecility  of  the  bee  in  the 
presence  of  the  Philanthus.  One  would  naturally 
suppose  that  the  persecuted  insect,  gradually  instructed 
by  family  misfortune,  would  exhibit  anxiety  at  the  ap- 
proach of  the  ravisher,  and  would  at  least  try  to  escape. 
But  in  my  bell-glasses  or  wire-gauze  cages  I  see  nothing 
of  the  kind.  Once  the  first  excitement  due  to  imprison- 
ment has  passed  the  bee  takes  next  to  no  notice  of  its 
terrible  neighbour.  I  have  seen  it  side  by  side  with 
Philanthus  on  the  same  flower;  assassin  and  future  victim 
were  drinking  from  the  same  goblet.  I  have  seen  it 
stupidly  coming  to  inquire  what  the  stranger  might  be, 
as  the  latter  crouched  watching  on  the  floor.  When  the 
murderer  springs  it  is  usually  upon  some  bee  which 
passes  before  her,  and  throws  itself,  so  to  speak,  into  her 
clutches  ;  either  thoughtlessly  or  out  of  curiosity.  There 
is  no  frantic  terror,  no  sign  of  anxiety,  no  tendency  to 
escape.  How  is  it  that  the  experience  of  centuries, 
which  is  said  to  teach  so  much  to  the  lower  creatures, 
has  not  taught  the  bee  even  the  beginning  of  apine 
wisdom  :  a  deep-rooted  horror  of  the  Philanthus  ?  Does 
the  bee  count  upon  its  sting  ?  But  the  unhappy  creature 
is  no  fencer ;  it  thrusts  without  method,  at  random. 
Nevertheless,  let  us  watch  it  at  the  final  and  fata 
moment. 
When  the  ravisher  brings  her  sting  into  play  the  bee 
also  uses  its  stins^,  and  with  fury.     1  see  the  point  thrust- 
158     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
ing  now  in  this  direction,  now  in  that ;  but  in  empty 
air,  or  grazing  and  sHpping  over  the  convexity  of  the 
murderer's  back,  which  is  violently  flexed.  These  blows 
have  no  serious  results.  In  the  position  assumed  by  the 
two  as  they  struggle  the  abdomen  of  the  Philanthus  is 
inside  and  that  of  the  bee  outside ;  thus  the  sting  of  the 
latter  has  under  its  point  only  the  dorsal  face  of  the  enemy, 
which  is  convex  and  slippery,  and  almost  invulnerable, 
so  well  is  it  armoured.  There  is  no  breach  there  by 
which  the  sting  might  possibly  enter  ;  and  the  operation 
takes  place  with  the  certainty  of  a  skilful  surgeon  using 
the  lancet,  despite  the  indignant  protests  of  the  patient. 
The  fatal  stroke  once  delivered,  the  murderer  remains 
for  some  time  on  the  body  of  the  victim,  clasping  it  face 
to  face,  for  reasons  that  we  must  now  consider.  It  may 
be  that  the  position  is  perilous  for  Philanthus.  The 
posture  of  attack  and  self-protection  is  abandoned,  and 
the  ventral  area,  more  vulnerable  than  the  back,  is  exposed 
to  the  sting  of  the  bee.  Now  the  dead  bee  retains  for 
some  minutes  the  reflex  use  of  the  sting,  as  I  know  to  my 
cost :  for  removing  the  bee  too  soon  from  the  aggressor, 
and  handling  it  carelessly,  I  have  received  a  most 
effectual  sting.  In  her  long  embrace  of  the  poisoned 
bee,  how  does  Philanthus  avoid  this  sting,  which  does 
not  willingly  give  up  its  life  without  vengeance  ?  Are 
there  not  sometimes  unexpected  accidents?    Perhaps. 
Here  is  a  fact  which  encourages  me  in  this  belief.  I 
had  placed  under  the  bell-glass  at  the  same  time  four 
bees  and  as  many  Eristales,  in  order  to  judge  of  the 
entomological  knowledge  of  Philanthus  as  exemplified 
in  the  distinction  of  species.  Reciprocal  quarrels  broke 
out  among  the  heterogeneous  group.     Suddenly,  in  tie 
A   BEE-HDNTER  159 
midst  of  the  tumult,  the  killer  is  killed.  Who  has  struck 
the  blow  ?  Certainly  not  the  turbulent  but  pacific 
Eristales ;  it  was  one  of  the  bees,  which  by  chance  had 
thrust  truly  in  the  mellay.  When  and  how  ?  I  do  not 
know.  This  accident  is  unique  in  my  experience ;  but 
it  throws  a  light  upon  the  question.  The  bee  is  capable 
of  withstanding  its  adversary  ;  it  can,  with  a  thrust  of 
its  envenomed  needle,  kill  the  would-be  killer.  That  it 
does  not  defend  itself  more  skilfully  when  it  falls  into 
the  hands  of  its  enemy  is  due  to  ignorance  of  fencing, 
not  to  the  weakness  of  the  arm.  And  here  again  arises, 
more  insistently  than  before,  the  question  I  asked  but 
now  :  how  is  it  that  the  Philanthus  has  learned  for  pur- 
poses of  attack  what  the  bee  has  not  learned  for  purposes 
of  defence.  To  this  difficulty  I  see  only  one  reply  :  the 
one  knows  without  having  learned  and  the  other  does  not 
know,  being  incapable  of  learning. 
Let  us  now  examine  the  motives  which  induce  the 
Philanthus  to  kill  its  bee  instead  of  paralysing  it.  The 
murder  once  committed,  it  does  not  release  its  victim 
for  a  moment,  but  holding  it  tightly  clasped  with  its  six 
legs  pressed  against  its  body,  it  commences  to  ravage  the 
corpse.  I  see  it  with  the  utmost  brutality  rooting  with  its 
mandibles  in  the  articulation  of  the  neck,  and  often  also 
in  the  more  ample  articulation  of  the  corselet,  behind  the 
first  pair  of  legs ;  perfectly  aware  of  the  fine  membrane 
in  that  part,  although  it  does  not  take  advantage  of  the 
fact  when  employing  its  sting,  although  this  vulnerable 
point  is  the  more  accessible  of  the  two  breaches  in  the 
bee's  armour.  I  see  it  squeezing  the  bee's  stomach,  com- 
pressing it  with  its  own  abdomen,  crushing  it  as  in  a 
vice.     The  brutality  of  this  manipulation  is  striking ;  it 
160    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE  INSECT   WORLD 
shows  that  there  is  no  more  need  of  care  and  skill.  The 
bee  is  a  corpse,  and  a  little  extra  pushing  and  squeezing 
will  not  deteriorate  its  quality  as  food,  provided  there  is 
no  effusion  of  blood  ;  and  however  rough  the  treatment, 
I  have  never  been  able  to  discover  the  slightest  wound. 
These  various  manipulations,  above  all  the  compression 
of  the  throat,  lead  to  the  desired  result  :  the  honey  in  the 
stomach  of  the  bee  ascends  to  the  mouth.  I  see  the 
drops  of  honey  welling  out,  lapped  up  by  the  glutton  as 
soon  as  they  appear.  The  bandit  greedily  takes  in  its 
mouth  the  extended  and  sugared  tongue  of  the  dead 
insect ;  then  once  more  it  presses  the  neck  and  the 
thorax,  and  once  more  applies  the  pressure  of  its  abdo- 
men to  the  honey-sac  of  the  bee.  The  honey  oozes  forth 
and  is  instantly  licked  up.  This  odious  meal  at  the 
expense  of  the  corpse  is  taken  in  a  truly  sybaritic  attitude: 
the  Philanthus  lies  upon  its  side  with  the  bee  between  its 
legs.  This  atrocious  meal  lasts  often  half  an  hour  and 
longer.  Finally  the  exhausted  corpse  is  abandoned ; 
regretfully,  it  seems,  for  from  time  to  time  I  have  seen 
the  ogre  return  to  the  feast  and  repeat  its  manipulation 
of  the  body.  After  taking  a  turn  round  the  top  of  the 
bell-glass  the  robber  of  the  dead  returns  to  the  victim, 
squeezes  it  once  more,  and  licks  its  mouth  until  the  last 
trace  of  hoiiey  has  disappeared. 
The  frantic  passion  of  the  Philanthus  for  the  honey  of 
the  bee  is  betrayed  in  another  fashion.  When  the  first 
victim  has  been  exhausted  I  have  introduced  a  second  bee, 
which  has  been  promptly  stabbed  under  the  chin  and 
squeezed  as  before  in  order  to  extract  its  honey.  A  third 
has  suffered  the  same  fate  without  appeasing  the  bandit. 
I  have  ofifered  a  fourth,  a  fifth  ;  all  are  accepted.     My 
A  BEE-HUNTER  161 
notes  record  that  a  Philanthus  sacrificed  six  bees  in 
succession  before  my  eyes,  and  emptied  them  all  of 
honey  in  the  approved  manner.  The  killing  came  to 
an  end  not  because  the  glutton  was  satiated,  but  because 
my  functions  as  provider  were  becoming  troublesome ; 
the  dry  month  of  August  leaves  but  few  insects  in  the 
flowerless  garden.  Six  bees  emptied  of  their  honey — 
what  a  gluttonous  meal  !  Yet  the  famishing  creature 
would  doubtless  have  welcomed  a  copious  addition 
thereto  had  I  had  the  means  of  furnishing  it ! 
We  need  not  regret  the  failure  of  bees  upon  this 
occasion  ;  for  what  I  hdve  already  written  is  sufficient 
testimony  of  the  singular  habits  of  this  murderer  of  bees. 
I  am  far  from  denying  that  the  Philanthus  has  honest 
methods  of  earning  its  living ;  I  see  it  among  the  flowers, 
no  less  assiduous  than  the  rest  of  the  Hymenoptera, 
peacefully  drinking  from  their  cups  of  nectar.  The 
male,  indeed,  being  stingless,  knows  no  other  means  of 
supporting  himself.  The  mothers,  without  neglecting 
the  flowers  as  a  general  thing,  live  by  brigandage  as  well. 
It  is  said  of  the  Labba,  that  pirate  of  the  seas,  that  it 
pounces  upon  sea-birds  as  they  rise  from  the  waves  with 
captured  fish  in  their  beaks.  With  a  blow  of  the  beak 
delivered  in  the  hollow  of  the  stomach,  the  aggressor 
forces  the  victim  to  drop  its  prey,  and  promptly  catches 
it  as  it  falls.  The  victim  at  least  escapes  with  nothing 
worse  than  a  blow  at  the  base  of  the  neck.  The  Philan- 
thus, less  scrupulous,  falls  upon  the  bee,  stabs  it  to  death 
and  makes  it  disgorge  in  order  to  nourish  herself  upon 
its  honey. 
Nourish,  I  say,  and  I  do  not  withdraw  the  expression. 
To   support   my   statement   i    have   better   rea^ns  than 
12 
162     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE   INSECT  WORLD 
those  already  presented.  In  the  cages  in  which  various 
predatory  Hymenoptera  whose  warHke  habits  I  am 
studying  are  confined,  waiting  until  I  have  procured  the 
desired  prey — not  always  an  easy  proceeding — I  have 
planted  a  few  heads  of  flowers  and  a  couple  of  thistle- 
heads  sprinkled  with  drops  of  honey,  renewed  at  need.  On 
these  my  captives  feed.  In  the  case  of  the  Philanthus 
the  honeyed  flowers,  although  welcomed,  are  not  in- 
dispensable. It  is  enough  if  from  time  to  time  I  place  in 
the  cage  a  few  living  bees.  Half  a  dozen  a  day  is  about 
the  proper  allowance.  With  no  other  diet  than  the 
honey  extracted  from  their  victims  I  keep  my  specimen* 
of  Philanthus  for  a  fortnight  and  three  weeks. 
So  much  is  plain  :  in  a  state  of  freedom,  when  oc- 
casion offers,  the  Philanthus  must  kill  on  her  own 
account  as  she  does  in  captivity.  The  Odynerus  asks 
nothing  of  the  Chrysomela  but  a  simple  condiment,  the 
aromatic  juice  of  the  anal  pouch  ;  the  Philanthus 
demands  a  full  diet,  or  at  least  a  notable  supplement 
thereto,  in  the  form  of  the  contents  of  the  stomach. 
What  a  hecatomb  of  bees  must  not  a  colony  of  these 
pirates  sacrifice  for  their  personal  consumption,  to  say 
nothing  of  their  stores  of  provisions  !  I  recommend  the 
Philanthus  to  the  vengeance  of  apiarists. 
For  the  moment  we  will  not  look  further  into  the 
original  causes  of  the  crime.  Let  us  consider  matters  as 
we  know  them,  with  all  their  real  or  apparent  atrocity. 
In  order  to  nourish  herself  the  Philanthus  levies  tribute 
upon  the  crop  of  the  bee.  This  being  granted,  let  us 
consider  the  method  of  the  aggressor  more  closely.  She 
does  not  paralyse  its  captives  according  to  the  customary 
rites  of  the  predatory  insects;  she  kills  them.    Why  ?   To 
A  BEE-HUNTEE  163 
the  eyes  of  understanding  the  necessity  of  a  sudden  death 
is  as  clear  as  day.  Without  eviscerating  the  bee,  which 
would  result  in  the  deterioration  of  its  flesh  considered 
as  food  for  the  larvae  ;  without  having  recourse  to  the 
bloody  extirpation  of  the  stomach,  the  Philanthus  intends 
to  obtain  its  honey.  By  skilful  manipulation,  by  cunning 
massage,  she  must  somehow  make  the  bee  disgorge. 
Suppose  the  bee  stung  in  the  rear  of  the  corselet  and 
paralysed.  It  is  deprived  of  locomotion,  but  not  of 
vitality.  The  digestive  apparatus,  in  particular,  retains 
in  full,  or  at  least  in  part,  its  normal  energies,  as  is 
proved  by  the  frequent  dejections  of  paralysed  victims  so 
long  as  the  intestine  is  not  emptied  ;  a  fact  notably 
exemplified  by  the  victims  of  the  Sphex  family  ;  helpless 
creatures  which  I  have  before  now  kept  alive  for  forty 
days  with  the  aid  of  a  little  sugared  water.  Well  !  with- 
out therapeutic  means,  without  emetics  or  stomach- 
pumps,  how  is  a  stomach  intact  and  in  good  order  to 
be  persuaded  to  yield  up  its  contents  ?  That  of  the  bee, 
jealous  of  its  treasure,  will  lend  itself  to  such  treatment 
less  readily  than  another.  Paralysed,  the  creature  is 
inert;  but  there  are  always  internal  energies  and  organic 
resistances  which  will  not  yield  to  the  pressure  of  the 
manipulator.  In  vain  would  the  Philanthus  gnaw  at  the 
throat  and  squeeze  the  flanks;  the  honey  would  not 
return  to  the  mouth  as  long  as  a  trace  of  life  kept  the 
stomach  closed. 
Matters  are  different  with  a  corpse.  The  springs  relax  ; 
the  muscles  yield ;  the  resistance  of  the  stomach  ceases, 
and  the  vessels  containing  the  honey  are  emptied  by  the 
pressure  of  the  thief.  We  see,  therefore,  that  the  Philan- 
thus is  obliged  to  inflict  a  sudden  death  which  instantly 
164     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT   WORLD 
destroys  the  contractile  power  of  the  organs.  Where 
shall  the  deadly  blow  be  delivered  ?  The  slayer  knows 
better  than  we,  when  she  pierces  the  victim  beneath  the 
chin.  Through  the  narrow  breach  in  the  throat  the 
cerebral  ganglions  are  reached  and  immediate  death 
ensues. 
The  examination  of  these  acts  of  brigandage  is  not 
sufficient  in  view  of  my  incorrigible  habit  of  following 
every  reply  by  another  query,  until  the  granite  wall  of  the 
unknowable  rises  before  me.  Although  the  Philanthus 
is  skilled  in  forcing  the  bee  to  disgorge,  in  emptying  the 
crop  distended  with  honey,  this  diabolical  skill  cannot 
be  merely  an  alimentary  resource,  above  all  when  in 
common  with  other  insects  she  has  access  to  the  refectory 
of  the  flowers.  I  cannot  regard  her  talents  as  inspired 
solely  by  the  desire  of  a  meal  obtained  by  the  labour  of 
emptying  the  stomach  of  another  insect.  Something 
must  surely  escape  us  here  :  the  real  reason  for  emptying 
the  stomach.  Perhaps  a  respectable  reason  is  concealed 
by  the  horrors  1  have  recorded.     What  is  it  ? 
Every  one  will  understand  the  vagueness  which  fills 
the  observer's  mind  in  respect  of  such  a  question  as  this. 
The  reader  has  the  right  to  be  doubtful.  I  will  spare 
him  my  suspicions,  my  gropings  for  the  truth,  and  the 
checks  encountered  in  the  search,  and  give  him  the 
results  of  my  long  inquiry.  Everything  has  its  appro- 
priate and  harmonious  reason.  I  am  too  fully  persuaded 
of  this  to  believe  that  the  Philanthus  commits  her  pro- 
fanation of  corpses  merely  to  satisfy  her  appetite.  What 
does  the  empty  stomach  mean  ?  May  it  not — Yes  ! — 
But,  after  all,  who  knows  ?  Well,  let  us  follow  up  the 
scent. 
A  BEE-HUNTBB  165 
The  first  care  of  the  mothers  is  the  welfare  of  the 
family.  So  far  all  we  know  of  the  Philanthus  concerns 
her  talent  for  murder.  Let  us  consider  her  as  a  mother. 
We  have  seen  her  hunt  on  her  own  account ;  let  us 
now  watch  her  hunt  for  her  offspring,  for  the  race. 
Nothing  is  simpler  than  to  distinguish  between  the  two 
kinds  of  hunting.  When  the  insect  wants  a  few  good 
mouthfuls  of  honey  and  nothing  else,  she  abandons  the 
bee  contemptuously  when  she  has  emptied  its  stomach. 
It  is  so  much  valueless  waste,  which  will  shrivel  where 
it  lies  and  be  dissected  by  ants.  If,  on  the  other  hand, 
she  intends  to  place  it  in  the  larder  as  a  provision  for  her 
larvae,  she  clasps  it  with  her  two  intermediate  legs,  and, 
walking  on  the  other  four,  drags  it  to  and  fro  along  the 
edge  of  the  bell-glass  in  search  of  an  exit  so  that  she  may 
fly  off  with  her  prey.  Having  recognised  the  circular 
wall  as  impassable,  she  climbs  its  sides,  now  holding 
the  bee  in  her  mandibles  by  the  antennae,  clinging  as  she 
climbs  to  the  vertical  polished  surface  with  all  six  feet. 
She  gains  the  summit  of  the  glass,  stays  for  a  little  while 
in  the  flask-like  cavity  of  the  terminal  button  or  handle, 
returns  to  the  ground,  and  resumes  her  circuit  of  the 
glass  and  her  climbing,  relinquishing  the  bee  only  after 
an  obstinate  attempt  to  escape  with  it.  The  persistence 
with  which  the  Philanthus  retains  her  clasp  upon  the 
encumbering  burden  shows  plainly  that  the  game  would 
go  straight  to  the  larder  were  the  insect  at  liberty. 
Those  bees  intended  for  the  larvae  are  stung  under  the 
chin  like  the  others  ;  they  are  true  corpses  ;  they  are 
manipulated,  squeezed,  exhausted  of  their  honey,  just  as 
the  others.  There  is  no  difference  in  the  method  of 
capture  nor  in  their  after-treatment. 
166     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
As  captivity  might  possibly  result  in  a  few  anomalies  of 
action,  I  de  ided  to  inquire  how  matters  went  forward  in 
the  open.  In  the  neighbourhood  of  some  colonies  of 
Phiianthidae  I  lay  in  wait,  watching  for  perhaps  a  longer 
time  than  the  question  justified,  as  it  was  already  settled 
by  what  occurred  in  captivity.  My  scrupulous  watching 
at  various  times  was  rewarded.  The  majority  of  the 
hunters  immediately  entered  their  nests,  carrying  the  bees 
pressed  against  their  bodies ;  some  halted  on  the  neigh- 
bouring undergrowth  ;  and  these  I  saw  treating  the  bee 
in  the  usual  manner,  and  lapping  the  honey  from  its 
mouth.  After  these  preparations  the  corpse  was  placed 
in  the  larder.  All  doubt  was  thus  destroyed  :  the  bees 
provided  for  the  larvae  are  previously  carefully  emptied 
of  their  honey. 
Since  we  are  dealing  with  the  subject,  let  us  take  the 
opportunity  of  inquiring  into  the  customs  of  the 
Philanthus  in  a  state  of  freedom.  Making  use  of  her 
victims  when  absolutely  lifeless,  so  that  they  would 
putrefy  in  the  course  of  a  few  days,  this  hunter  of  bees 
cannot  adopt  the  customs  of  certain  insects  which  para- 
lyse their  prey,  and  fill  their  cellars  before  laying  an  egg. 
She  must  surely  be  obliged  to  follow  the  method  of  the 
Bembex,  whose  larva  receives,  at  intervals,  the  necessary 
nourishment ;  the  amount  mcreasing  as  the  larva  grows. 
The  facts  confirm  this  deduction.  I  spoke  just  now  of 
the  tediousness  of  my  watching  when  watching  the 
colonies  of  the  Philanthus.  It  was  perhaps  even  more 
tedious  than  when  I  was  keeping  an  eye  upon  the 
Bembex.  Before  the  burrows  of  Cerceris  tuberculus 
and  other  devourers  of  the  weevil,  and  before  that  of  the 
yellow-winged    Sphex,   the   slayer   of    crickets,   there    is 
A  BEE-HUNTER  167 
plenty  of  distraction,  owing  to  the  busy  movements  of 
the  community.  The  mothers  have  scarcely  entered  the 
nest  before  they  are  off  again,  returning  quickly  with 
fresh  prey,  only  to  set  out  once  more.  The  going  and 
coming  is  almost  continuous  until  the  storehouse  is  full. 
The  burrows  of  the  Philanthus  know  nothing  of  such 
animation,  even  in  a  populous  colony.  In  vain  my  vigils 
prolonged  themselves  into  whole  mornings  or  afternoons, 
and  only  very  rarely  does  the  mother  who  has  entered 
with  a  bee  set  forth  upon  a  second  expedition.  Two 
captures  by  the  same  huntress  is  the  most  that  I  have 
seen  in  my  long  watches.  Once  the  family  is  provided 
with  sufficient  food  for  the  moment  the  mother  post- 
pones further  hunting  trips  until  hunting  becomes 
necessary,  and  busies  herself  with  digging  and  burrowing 
in  her  underground  dwelling.  Little  cells  are  excavated, 
and  I  see  the  rubbish  from  them  gradually  pushed  up  to 
the  surface.  With  that  exception  there  is  no  sign  of 
activity ;  it  is  as  though  the  burrow  were  deserted. 
To  lay  the  nest  bare  is  not  easy.  The  burrow  pene- 
trates to  a  depth  of  about  three  feet  in  a  compact  soil ; 
sometimes  in  a  vertical,  sometimes  in  a  horizontal  direc- 
tion. The  spade  and  pick,  wielded  by  hands  more 
vigorous  but  less  expert  than  my  own,  are  indispensable  ; 
but  the  conduct  of  the  excavation  is  anything  but  satis- 
factory. At  the  extremity  of  the  long  gallery — it  seems 
as  though  the  straw  I  use  for  sounding  would  never 
reach  the  end — we  finally  discover  the  cells,  egg-shaped 
cavities  with  the  longer  axis  horizontal.  Their  number 
and  their  mutual  disposition  escape  me. 
Some  already  contain  the  cocoon — slender  and  trans- 
lucid,  like  that  of  the  Cerceris,  and,  like  it,  recalling  the 
168     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
shape  of  certain  homoeopathic  phials,  with  oval  bodies 
surmounted  by  a  tapering  neck.  By  the  extremity  of 
the  neck,  which  is  blackened  and  hardened  by  the 
dejecta  of  the  larvae,  the  cocoon  is  fixed  to  the  end  of 
the  cell  without  any  other  support.  It  reminds  one  of  a 
short  club,  planted  by  the  end  of  the  handle,  in  a  line 
vvith  the  horizontal  axis  of  the  cell.  Other  cells  contain 
the  larva  in  a  stage  more  or  less  advanced.  The  grub 
is  eating  the  last  victim  proffered  ;  around  it  lie  the 
remains  of  food  already  consumed.  Others,  again,  show 
me  a  bee,  a  single  bee,  still  intact,  and  having  an  egg 
deposited  on  the  under-side  of  the  thorax.  This  bee 
represents  the  first  instalment  of  rations ;  others  will 
follow  as  the  grub  matures.  My  expectations  are  thus 
confirmed  ;  as  with  Bembex,  slayer  of  Diptera,  so  Philan- 
thus,  killer  of  bees,  lays  her  egg  upon  the  first  body  stored, 
and  completes,  at  intervals,  the  provisioning  of  the  cells. 
The  problem  of  the  dead  bee  is  elucidated ;  there 
remains  the  other  problem,  of  incomparable  interest — 
Why,  before  they  are  given  over  to  the  larvae,  are  the 
bees  robbed  of  their  honey  ?  I  have  said,  and  I  repeat, 
that  the  killing  and  emptying  of  the  bee  cannot  be 
explained  solely  by  the  gluttony  of  the  Philanthus.  To 
rob  the  worker  of  its  booty  is  nothing  ;  such  things  are 
seen  every  day  ;  but  to  slaughter  it  in  order  to  empty  its 
stomach — no,  gluttony  cannot  be  the  only  motive.  And 
as  the  bees  placed  in  the  cells  are  squeezed  dry  no  less 
than  the  others,  the  idea  occurs  to  me  that  as  a  beef- 
steak garnished  with  confitures  is  not  to  every  one's  taste, 
so  the  bee  sweetened  with  honey  may  well  be  distasteful 
or  even  harmful  to  the  larvae  of  the  Philanthus.  What 
would  the  grub  do  if,  replete  with  blood  and  flesh,  it  wer*- 
A  BEE-HUNTER  169 
to  find  under  its  mandibles  the  honey-bag  of  the  bee  ? 
— if,  gnawing  at  random,  it  were  to  open  the  bee's 
stomach  and  so  drench  its  game  with  syrup  ?  Would 
it  approve  of  the  mixture  ?  Would  the  little  ogre  pass 
without  repugnance  from  the  gamey  flavour  of  a  corpse 
to  the  scent  of  flowers  ?  To  affirm  or  deny  is  useless. 
We  must  see.     j-,et  us  see. 
I  take  the  young  larvae  of  the  Philanthus,  already  well 
matured,  but  instead  of  serving  them  with  the  provisions 
buried  in  their  cells  I  offer  them  game  of  my  own 
catching — bees  that  have  filled  themselves  with  nectar 
among  the  rosemary  bushes.  My  bees,  killed  by  crush- 
ing the  head,  are  thankfully  accepted,  and  at  first  I  see 
nothing  to  justify  my  suspicions.  Then  my  nurslings 
languish,  show  themselves  disdainful  of  their  food,  give 
a  negligent  bite  here  and  there,  and  finalh',  one  and  all, 
die  beside  their  uncompleted  meal.  All  my  attempts 
miscarry  ;  not  once  do  I  succeed  in  rearing  my  larvae 
as  far  as  the  stage  of  spinning  the  cocoon.  Yet  I  am 
no  novice  in  my  duties  as  dry-nurse.  How  many  pupils 
have  passed  through  my  hands  and  have  reached  the 
final  stage  in  my  old  sardine-boxes  as  well  as  in  their 
native  burrows  !  I  shall  draw  no  conclusions  from  this 
check,  which  my  scruples  may  attribute  to  some  un- 
known cause.  Perhaps  the  atmosphere  of  my  cabinet 
and  the  dryness  of  the  sand  serving  them  for  a  bed  have 
been  too  much  for  my  nurslings,  whose  tender  skins  are 
used  to  the  warm  moisture  of  the  subsoil.  Let  us  try 
another  method. 
To  decide  positively  whether  honey  is  or  is  not  repug- 
nant to  the  grubs  of  the  Philanthus  was  hardly  practic- 
able  by   the   method   just   explained.     The   first   meals 
170     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WOKLD 
consisted  of  flesh,  and  after  that  nothing  in  particular 
occurred.  The  honey  is  encountered  later,  when  the 
bee  is  largely  consumed.  If  hesitation  and  repugnance 
were  manifested  at  this  point  they  came  too  late  to  be 
conclusive ;  the  sickness  of  the  larvae  might  be  due  to 
other  causes,  known  or  unknown.  We  must  offer  honey 
at  the  very  beginning,  before  artificial  rearing  has  spoilt 
the  grub's  appetite.  To  offer  pure  honey  would,  of 
course,  be  useless  ;  no  carnivorous  creature  would  touch 
it,  even  were  it  starving.  I  must  spread  the  honey  on 
meat;  that  is,  I  must  smear  the  dead  bee  with  honey, 
lightly  varnishing  it  with  a  camel's-hair  brush. 
Under  these  conditions  the  problem  is  solved  with 
the  first  few  mouthfuls.  The  grub,  having  bitten  on 
the  honeyed  bee,  draws  back  as  though  disgusted ; 
hesitates  for  a  long  time  ;  then,  urged  by  hunger,  begins 
again  ;  tries  first  on  one  side,  then  on  another ;  in  the 
end  it  refuses  to  touch  the  bee  again.  For  a  few  days 
it  pines  upon  its  rations,  which  are  almost  intact,  then 
dies.  As  many  as  are  subjected  to  the  same  treatment 
perish  in  the  same  way. 
Do  they  simply  die  of  hunger  in  the  presence  of  food 
which  their  appetites  reject,  or  are  they  poisoned  by  the 
small  amount  of  honey  absorbed  at  the  first  bites  ?  I 
cannot  say  ;  but,  whether  poisonous  or  merely  repug- 
nant, the  bee  smeared  with  honey  is  always  fatal  to  them  ; 
a  fact  which  explains  more  clearly  than  the  unfavourable 
circumstances  of  the  former  experiment  my  lack  of 
success  with  the  freshly  killed  bees. 
This  refusal  to  touch  honey,  whether  poisonous  or 
repugnant,  is  connected  with  principles  of  alimentation 
too    general    to    be   a   gastronomic    peculiarity  of    the 
A  BEE-HUNTER  171 
Philanthus  grub.  Other  carnivorous  larvae— at  least  in 
the  series  of  the  Hymenoptera — must  share  it.  Let  us 
experiment.  The  method  need  not  be  changed.  I 
exhume  the  larvae  when  in  a  state  of  medium  growth, 
to  avoid  the  vicissitudes  of  extreme  youth  ;  I  collect 
the  bodies  of  the  grubs  and  insects  which  form  their 
natural  diet  and  smear  each  body  with  honey,  in  which 
condition  I  return  them  to  the  larvae.  A  distinction  is 
apparent :  all  the  larvae  are  not  equally  suited  to  my 
experiment.  Those  larvae  must  be  rejected  which  are 
nourished  upon  one  single  corpulent  insect,  as  is  that 
of  the  Scolia.  The  grub  attacks  its  prey  at  a  determined 
point,  plunges  its  head  and  neck  into  the  body  of  the 
insect,  skilfully  divides  the  entrails  in  order  to  keep  the 
remains  fresh  until  its  meal  is  ended,  and  does  not 
emerge  from  the  opening  until  all  is  consumed  but  the 
empty  skin. 
To  interrupt  the  larva  with  the  object  of  smearing  the 
interior  of  its  prey  with  honey  is  doubly  objectionable  ; 
I  might  extinguish  the  lingering  vitality  which  keeps 
putrefaction  at  bay  in  the  victim,  and  I  might  confuse 
the  delicate  art  of  the  larva,  which  might  not  be  able 
to  recover  the  lode  at  which  it  was  working  or  to  dis- 
tinguish between  those  parts  which  are  lawfully  and 
properly  eaten  and  those  which  must  not  be  consumed 
until  a  later  period.  As  I  have  shown  in  a  previous 
volume,  the  grub  of  the  Scolia  has  taught  me  much  in 
this  respect  The  only  larvae  acceptable  for  this  experi- 
ment are  those  which  are  fed  on  a  number  of  small 
insects,  which  are  attacked  without  any  special  art,  dis- 
membered at  random,  and  quickly  consumed.  Among 
such  larvae  I  have  experimented  with  those  provided  by 
172     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
chance — those  of  various  Bembeces,  fed  on  Dipteia ; 
those  of  the  Palaris,  whose  diet  consists  of  a  large 
variety  of  Hymenoptera  ;  those  of  the  Tachytus,  pro- 
vided with  young  crickets  ;  those  of  the  Odynerus,  fed 
upon  larvae  ol  the  Chrysomela ;  those  of  the  sand- 
dwelling  Cerceris,  endowed  with  a  hecatomb  of  weevils. 
As  will  be  seen,  both  consumers  and  consumed  offer 
plenty  of  variety.  Well,  in  every  case  their  proper  diet, 
seasoned  with  honey,  is  fatal.  Whether  poisoned  or 
disgusted,  they  all  die  in  a  few  days. 
A  strange  result  !  Honey,  the  nectar  of  the  flowers, 
the  sole  diet  of  the  apiary  under  its  two  forms  and  the 
sole  nourishment  of  the  predatory  insect  in  its  adult 
phase,  is  for  the  larva  of  the  same  insect  an  object  of 
insurmountable  disgust,  and  probably  a  poison.  The 
transfiguration  of  the  chrysalis  surprises  me  less  than 
this  inversion  of  the  appetite.  What  change  occurs  in 
the  stomach  of  the  insect  that  the  adult  should  passion- 
ately seek  that  which  the  larva  refuses  under  peril  of 
death  ?  It  is  no  question  of  organic  debility  unable  to 
support  a  diet  too  substantial,  too  hard,  or  too  highly 
spiced.  The  grubs  which  consume  the  larva  of  the 
Cetoniae,  for  example  (the  Rose-chafers),  those  which 
feed  upon  the  leathery  cricket,  and  those  whose  diet  is 
rich  in  nitrobenzine,  must  assuredly  have  complacent 
gullets  and  adaptable  stomachs.  Yet  these  robust  eaters 
die  of  hunger  or  poison  for  no  greater  cause  than  a 
drop  of  syrup,  the  lightest  diet  imaginable,  adapted  to 
the  weakness  of  extreme  youth,  and  a  delicacy  to  the 
adult  1  What  a  gulf  of  obscurity  in  the  stomach  of  a 
miserable  worm  ! 
These  gastronomic  experiments  called  for  a  counter- 
A  BEE-HUNTER  173 
proof.  The  carnivorous  grub  is  killed  by  honey.  Is 
the  honey-fed  grub,  inversely,  killed  by  carnivorous 
diet  ?  Here,  again,  we  must  make  certain  exceptions, 
observe  a  certain  choice,  as  in  the  previous  experiments. 
It  would  obviously  be  courting  a  flat  refusal  to  offer  a 
heap  of  young  crickets  to  the  larvae  of  the  Anthophorus 
and  the  Osmia,  for  example  ;  the  honey-fed  grub  would 
not  bite  such  food.  It  would  be  absolutely  useless  to 
make  such  an  experiment.  We  must  find  the  equivalent 
of  the  bee  smeared  with  honey ;  that  is,  we  must  offer 
the  larva  its  ordinary  food  with  a  mixture  of  animal 
matter  added.  I  shall  experiment  with  albumen,  as 
provided  by  the  egg  of  the  hen  ;  albumen  being  an 
isomer  of  fibrine,  which  is  the  principal  element  of  all 
flesh  diet. 
Osmia  iricornis  will  lend  itself  to  my  experiment 
better  than  any  other  insect  on  account  of  its  dry  honey, 
or  bee-bread,  which  is  largely  formed  of  flowery  pollen. 
I  knead  it  with  the  albumen,  graduating  the  dose  of  the 
latter  so  that  its  weight  largely  exceeds  that  of  the  bee- 
bread.  Thus  I  obtain  pastes  of  various  degrees  of  con- 
sistency, but  all  firm  enough  to  support  the  larva  without 
danger  of  immersion.  With  too  fluid  a  mixture  there 
would  be  a  danger  of  death  by  drowning.  Finally,  on 
each  cake  of  albuminous  paste  I  install  a  larva  of  medium 
growth. 
This  diet  is  not  distasteful ;  far  from  it.  The  grubs 
attack  it  without  hesitation  and  devour  it  with  every 
appearance  of  a  normal  appetite.  Matters  could  nc^* 
go  better  if  the  food  had  not  been  modified  according 
to  my  recipes.  All  is  eaten ;  even  the  portions  which  I 
feared  contained  an   excessive   proportion  of  albumen. 
174     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
Moreover — a  matter  of  still  greater  importance — the 
larvae  of  the  Osmia  fed  in  this  manner  attain  their- 
normal  growth  and  spin  their  cocoons,  from  which 
adults  issue  in  the  following  year.  Despite  the  albu- 
minous diet  the  cycle  of  evolution  completes  itself 
without  mishap. 
What  are  we  to  conclude  from  all  this  ?  I  confess  I 
am  embarrassed.  Omne  vivum  ex  ovo,  says  the  physio- 
logist. All  animals  are  carnivorous  in  their  first  begin- 
nings ;  they  are  formed  and  nourished  at  the  expense  of 
the  egg,  in  which  albumen  predominates.  The  highest, 
the  mammals,  adhere  to  this  diet  for  a  considerable 
time ;  they  live  by  the  maternal  milk,  rich  in  casein, 
another  isomer  of  albumen.  The  gramnivorous  nestling 
is  fed  first  upon  worms  and  grubs,  which  are  best 
adapted  to  the  delicacy  of  its  stomach ;  many  newly 
born  creatures  among  the  lower  orders,  being  imme- 
diately left  to  their  own  devices,  live  on  animal  diet. 
In  this  way  the  original  method  of  alimentation  is 
continued — the  method  which  builds  flesh  out  of  flesh 
and  makes  blood  out  of  blood  with  no  chemical  pro- 
cesses but  those  of  simple  reconstruction.  In  maturity, 
when  the  stomach  is  more  robust,  a  vegetable  diet  may 
be  adopted,  involving  a  more  complex  chemistry, 
although  the  food  itself  is  more  easily  obtained.  To 
milk  succeeds  fodder ;  to  the  worm,  seeds  and  grain  ;  to 
the  dead  or  paralysed  insects  of  the  natal  burrow,  the 
nectar  of  flowers. 
Here  is  a  partial  explanation  of  the  double  system 
of  the  Hymenoptera  with  their  carnivorous  larvae — the 
system  of  dead  or  paralysed  insects  followed  by  honey. 
But  here  the  point  of  interrogation,  already  encountered 
A  BEE-HUNTER  175 
elsewhere,  erects  itself  once  again.  Why  is  the  larva  of 
the  Osmia,  which  thrives  upon  albumen,  actually  fed 
upon  honey  during  its  early  life  ?  Why  is  a  vegetable 
diet  the  rule  in  the  hives  of  bees  from  the  very  com- 
mencement, when  the  other  members  of  the  same  series 
live  upon  animal  food  ? 
If  I  were  a  "  transformist "  how  I  should  delight  in 
this  question  !  Yes,  I  should  say  :  yes,  by  the  fact  of  its 
germ  every  animal  is  originally  carnivorous.  The  insect 
in  particular  makes  a  beginning  with  albuminoid 
materials.  Many  larvae  adhere  to  the  alimentation  present 
in  the  egg,  as  do  many  adult  insects  also.  But  the 
struggle  to  fill  the  belly,  which  is  actually  the  struggle 
for  life,  demands  something  better  than  the  precarious 
chances  of  the  chase.  Man,  at  first  an  eager  hunter  of 
game,  collected  flocks  and  became  a  shepherd  in  order  to 
profit  by  his  possessions  in  time  of  dearth.  Further  pro- 
gress inspired  him  to  till  the  earth  and  sow ;  a  method 
which  assured  him  of  a  certain  living.  Evolution  from 
the  defective  to  the  mediocre,  and  from  the  mediocre 
to  the  abundant,  has  led  to  the  resources  of  agriculture. 
The  lower  animals  have  preceded  us  on  the  way  of 
progress.  The  ancestors  of  the  Philanthus,  in  the  re- 
mote ages  of  the  lacustrian  tertiary  formations,  lived  by 
capturing  prey  in  both  phases — both  as  larvae  and  as 
adults ;  they  hunted  for  their  own  benefit  as  well  as  for 
the  family.  They  did  not  confine  themselves  to  emptying 
the  stomach  of  the  bee,  as  do  their  descendants  to-day  ; 
they  devoured  the  victim  entire.  From  beginning  to 
end  they  remained  carnivorous.  Later  there  were 
fortunate  innovators,  whose  race  supplanted  the  more 
conservative   element,  who   discovered  an  inexhaustible 
176     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
source  of  nourishment,  to  be  obtained  without  painful 
search  or  dangerous  conflict  :  the  saccharine  exudation 
of  the  flowers.  The  wasteful  system  of  living  upon  prey, 
by  no  means  favourable  to  large  populations,  has  been 
preserved  for  the  feeble  larvae  ;  but  the  vigorous  adult 
has  abandoned  it  for  an  easier  and  more  prosperous 
existence.  Thus  the  Philanthus  of  our  own  days  was 
gradually  developed ;  thus  was  formed  the  double 
system  of  nourishment  practised  by  the  various  pre- 
datory insects  which  we  know. 
The  bee  has  done  still  better  ;  from  the  moment  of 
leaving  the  egg  it  dispenses  completely  with  chance-won 
aliments.  It  has  invented  honey,  the  food  of  its  larvae. 
Renouncing  the  chase  for  ever,  and  becoming  exclusively 
agricultural,  this  insect  has  acquired  a  degree  of  moral 
and  physical  prosperity  that  the  predatory  species  are  far 
from  sharing.  Hence  the  flourishing  colonies  of  the 
Anthophorae,  the  Osmiae,  the  Eucerae,  the  Halicti,  and 
other  makers  of  honey,  while  the  hunters  of  prey  work 
in  isolation  ;  hence  the  societies  in  which  the  bee 
displays  its  admirable  talents,  the  supreme  expression  of 
instinct. 
This  is  what  I  should  say  if  I  were  a  "  transformist." 
All  this  is  a  chain  of  highly  logical  deductions,  and  it 
hangs  together  with  a  certain  air  of  reality,  such  as  we 
like  to  look  for  in  a  host  of  "  transformist "  arguments 
which  are  put  forward  as  irrefutable.  Well,  I  make  a 
present  of  my  deductive  theory  to  whosoever  desires  it, 
and  without  the  least  regret  ;  I  do  not  believe  a  smgle 
word  of  it,  and  I  confess  my  profound  ignorance  of  the 
origin  of  the  twofold  system  of  diet. 
One  thing  I  do  see  more  clearly  after  all  my  experi- 
A  BEE-HUNTER  177 
ments  and  research  :  the  tactics  of  the  Philanthus.  As 
a  witness  of  its  ferocious  feasting,  the  true  motive  of 
which  was  unknown  to  me,  I  treated  it  to  all  the  un- 
favourable epithets  I  could  think  of ;  called  it  assassin, 
bandit,  pirate,  robber  of  the  dead.  Ignorance  is  always 
abusive  ;  the  man  who  does  not  know  is  full  of  violent 
affirmations  and  malign  interpretations.  Undeceived  by 
the  facts,  I  hasten  to  apologise  and  express  my  esteem  for 
the  Philanthus.  In  emptying  the  stomach  of  the  bee 
the  mother  is  performing  the  most  praiseworthy  of  all 
duties  ;  she  is  guarding  her  family  against  poison.  If 
she  sometimes  kills  on  her  own  account  and  abandons 
the  body  after  exhausting  it  of  honey,  I  dare  not  call 
her  action  a  crime.  When  the  habit  has  once  been 
formed  of  emptying  the  bee's  crop  for  the  best  of 
motives,  the  temptation  is  great  to  do  so  with  no  other 
excuse  than  hunger.  Moreover — who  can  say  ? — perhaps 
there  is  always  some  afterthought  that  the  larvae  might 
profit  by  the  sacrifice.  Although  not  carried  into  effect 
the  intention  excuses  the  act. 
I  therefore  withdraw  my  abusive  epithets  in  order  to 
express  my  admiration  of  the  creature's  maternal  logic. 
Honey  would  be  harmful  to  the  grubs.  How  does  the 
mother  know  that  honey,  in  which  she  herself  delights, 
is  noxious  to  her  young  ?  To  this  question  our  knowledge 
has  no  reply.  But  honey,  as  we  have  seen,  would 
endanger  the  lives  of  the  grubs.  The  bees  must  therefore 
be  emptied  of  honey  before  they  are  fed  to  them.  The 
process  must  be  effected  without  wounding  the  victim, 
for  the  larva  must  receive  the  latter  fresh  and  moist ;  and 
this  would  be  impracticable  if  the  insect  were  paralysed 
on  account  of  the  natural  resistance  of  the  organs.    The 
13 
178     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
bee  must  therefore  be  killed  outright  instead  of  being 
paralysed,  otherwise  the  honey  could  not  be  removed. 
Instantaneous  death  can  be  assured  only  by  a  lesion 
of  the  primordial  centre  of  life.  The  sting  must  there- 
fore pierce  the  cervical  ganglions  ;  the  centre  of  inner- 
vation upon  which  the  rest  of  the  organism  is  dependent. 
This  can  only  be  reached  in  one  way :  through  the 
neck.  Here  it  is  that  the  sting  will  be  inserted  ;  and  here 
it  is  inserted  in  a  breach  in  the  armour  no  larger  than 
a  pin's  head.  Suppress  a  single  link  of  this  closely  knit 
chain,  and  the  Philanthus  reared  upon  the  flesh  of  bees 
becomes  an  impossibility. 
That  honey  is  fatal  to  larvae  is  a  fact  pregnant  with 
consequences.  Various  predatory  insects  feed  their  young 
with  honey-makers.  Such,  to  my  knowledge,  are  the 
Philanihtis  corcnatus,  Fabr.,  which  stores  its  burrows  with 
the  large  Halictus  ;  the  Philanthus  raptor ^  Lep.,  which 
chases  all  the  smaller  Halictus  indifferently,  being  itself  a 
small  insect  ;  the  Cerceris  ornata,  Fabr.,  which  also  kills 
Halictus ;  and  the  Palaris  flavipes,  Fabr.,  which  by  a 
strange  eclecticism  fills  its  cells  with  specimens  of  most 
of  the  Hymenoptera  which  are  not  beyond  its  powers. 
What  do  these  four  huntresses,  and  others  of  similar 
habits,  do  with  their  victims  when  the  crops  of  the  latter 
are  full  of  honey  ?  They  must  follow  the  example  of 
the  Philanthus  or  their  offspring  would  perish  ;  they  must 
squeeze  and  manipulate  the  dead  bee  until  it  yields  up 
its  honey.  Everything  goes  to  prove  as  much  ;  but 
for  the  actual  observation  of  what  would  be  a  notable 
proof  of  my  theory  I  must  trust  to  the  future. 