CHAPTER  XV 
THE  OAK  EGGAR,  OR  BANDED  MONK 
Yes  :  I  was  to  find  it.  I  even  had  it  already  in  my 
possession.  An  urchin  of  seven  years,  with  an  alert 
countenance,  not  washed  every  day,  bare  feet,  and 
dilapidated  breeches  supported  by  a  piece  of  string,  who 
frequented  the  house  as  a  dealer  in  turnips  and  tomatoes, 
arrived  one  day  with  his  basket  of  vegetables.  Having 
received  the  few  halfpence  expected  by  his  mother  as  the 
price  of  the  garden-stuff,  and  having  counted  them  one 
by  one  into  the  hollow  of  his  hand,  he  took  from  his 
pocket  an  object  which  he  had  discovered  the  day  before 
beneath  a  hedge  when  gathering  greenstuff  for  his 
rabbits. 
"And  this— will  you  have  this?"  he  said,  handing  me 
the  object.  "  Why,  certainly  I  will  have  it.  Try  to  find 
me  more,  as  many  as  you  can,  and  on  Sunday  you  shall 
have  lots  of  rides  on  the  wooden  horses.  In  the  mean- 
time here  is  a  penny  for  you.  Don't  forget  it  when  you 
make  up  your  accounts  ;  don't  mix  it  with  your  turnip- 
money  ;  put  it  by  itself."  Beaming  with  satisfaction  at 
such  wealth,  little  touzle-head  promised  to  search  indus- 
triously, already  foreseeing  a  fortune. 
When   he  had  gone    I    examined   the   thing.     It  was 
THE  OAK  EGGAR  208 
worth  examination.  It  was  a  fine  cocoon,  thick  and  with 
blunt  ends,  very  like  a  silkworm's  cocoon,  firm  to  the 
touch  and  of  a  tawny  colour.  A  brief  reference  to 
the  text-books  almost  convinced  me  that  this  was  a 
cocoon  of  the  Bomhyx  quercus.^  If  so,  what  a  find  1  I 
could  continue  my  inquiry  and  perhaps  confirm  what 
my  study  of  the  Great  Peacock  had  made  me  suspect. 
The  Bombyx  of  the  oak-tree  is,  in  fact,  a  classic 
moth  ;  indeed,  there  is  no  entomological  text-book  but 
speaks  of  its  exploits  at  mating-time.  It  is  said  that  a 
female  emerged  from  the  pupa  in  captivity,  in  the 
interior  of  an  apartment,  and  even  in  a  closed  box.  It 
was  far  from  the  country,  amidst  the  tumult  of  a  large 
city.  Nevertheless,  the  event  was  known  to  those 
concerned  in  the  woods  and  meadows.  Guided  by  some 
mysterious  compass,  the  males  arrived,  hastening  from 
the  distant  fields  ;  they  went  to  the  box,  fluttered  against 
it,  and  flew  to  and  fro  in  the  room. 
These  marvels  I  had  learned  by  reading ;  but  to  see 
such  a  thing  with  one's  own  eyes,  and  at  the  same  time 
to  devise  experiments,  is  quite  another  thing.  What  had 
my  penny  bargain  in  store  for  me  ?  Would  the  famous 
Bombyx  issue  from  it  ? 
Let  us  call  it  by  its  other  name,  the  Banded  Monk. 
This  original  name  of  Monk  was  suggested  by  the 
costume  of  the  male  ;  a  monk's  robe  of  a  modest  rusty 
red.  But  in  the  case  of  the  female  the  brown  fustian 
gives  place  to  a  beautiful  velvet,  with  a  pale  transversal 
band  and  little  white  eyes  on  the  fore  pair  of  wings. 
The  Monk  is  not  a  common  butterfly  which  can  be 
caught  by  any  one  who  takes  out  a  net  at  the  proper 
'  Now  classified  as  Lasiocampa  quercus. — [Trans.1 
204     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
season.  I  have  never  seen  it  around  our  village  or  in 
the  solitude  of  my  grounds  during  a  residence  of  twenty 
years.  It  is  true  that  I  am  not  a  fervent  butterfly-catcher  ; 
the  dead  insect  of  the  collector's  cabinet  has  little  interest 
for  me ;  I  must  have  it  living,  in  the  exercise  of  its 
functions.  But  although  I  have  not  the  collector's  zeal 
I  have  an  attentive  eye  to  all  that  flies  or  crawls  in  the 
fields.  A  butterfly  so  remarkable  for  its  size  and 
colouring  would  never  have  escaped  my  notice  had  I 
encountered  it. 
The  little  searcher  whom  I  had  enticed  by  a  promise 
of  rides  upon  wooden  horses  never  made  a  second 
find.  For  three  years  I  requisitioned  friends  and 
neighbours,  and  especially  their  children,  sharp-sighted 
snappers-up  of  trifles  ;  I  myself  hunted  often  under 
heaps  of  withered  leaves  ;  I  inspected  stone-heaps  and 
visited  hollow  tree-trunks.  Useless  pains  ;  the  precious 
cocoon  was  not- to  be  found.  It  is  enough  to  say  that  the 
Banded  Monk  is  extremely  rare  in  my  neighbourhood. 
The  importance  of  this  fact  will  presently  appear. 
As  I  suspected,  my  cocoon  was  truly  that  of  the 
celebrated  Oak  Eggar.  On  the  20th  of  August  a  female 
emerged  from  it  :  corpulent,  big-bellied,  coloured  like 
the  male,  but  lighter  in  hue.  I  placed  her  under  the 
usual  wire  cover  in  the  centre  of  my  laboratory  table, 
littered  as  it  was  with  books,  bottles,  trays,  boxes,  test- 
tubes,  and  other  apparatus.  I  have  explained  the  situa- 
tion in  speaking  of  the  Great  Peacock.  Two  windows 
light  the  room,  both  opening  on  the  garden.  One 
was  closed,  the  other  open  day  and  night.  The 
butterfly  was  placed  in  the  shade,  between  the  lines 
of  the  two  windows,  at  a  distance  of  12  or  15  feet. 
THE   OAK  EGGAR  205 
The  rest  of  that  day  and  the  next  went  by  without 
any  occurrence  worthy  of  notice.  Hanging  by  the 
feet  to  the  front  of  the  wire  cover,  on  the  side  nearest 
to  the  light,  the  prisoner  was  motionless,  inert.  There 
was  no  oscillation  of  the  wings,  no  tremor  of  the 
antennae.  The  female  of  the  Great  Peacock  behaved 
in  a  similar  fashion. 
The  female  Bombyx  gradually  matured,  her  tender 
tissues  gradually  becoming  firmer.  By  some  process  of 
which  our  scientists  have  not  the  least  idea  she  elaborated 
a  mysterious  lure  which  would  bring  her  lovers  from 
the  four  corners  of  the  sky.  What  was  happening 
in  this  big-bellied  body ;  what  transmutations  were 
accomphshed,  thus  to  affect  the  whole  countryside  ? 
On  the  third  day  the  bride  was  ready.  The  festival 
opened  brilliantly.  I  was  in  the  garden,  already  despair- 
ing of  success,  for  the  days  were  passing  and  nothing 
had  occurred,  when  towards  three  in  the  afternoon, 
the  weather  being  very  hot  and  the  sun  radiant,  I  per- 
ceived a  crowd  of  butterflies  gyrating  in  the  embrasure 
of  the  open  window. 
The  lovers  had  at  last  come  to  visit  their  lady. 
Some  were  emerging  from  the  room,  others  were  enter- 
ing it ;  others,  clinging  to  the  wall  of  the  house,  were 
resting  as  though  exhausted  by  a  long  journey.  I 
could  see  others  approaching  in  the  distance,  flying 
over  the  walls,  over  the  screens  of  cypress.  They 
came  from  all  directions,  but  at  last  with  decreasing 
frequency,  I  had  missed  the  opening  of  the  convo- 
cation, and  now  the  gathering  was  almost  complete. 
I  went  indoors  and  upstairs.  This  time,  in  full  day- 
light   and    without    losing  a   detail,    I    witnessed    once 
206     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
more  the  astonishing  spectacle  to  which  the  great 
nocturnal  butterfly  had  first  introduced  me.  The  study 
contained  a  cloud  of  males,  which  I  estimated,  at  a 
glance,  as  being  about  sixty  in  number,  so  far  as  the 
movement  and  confusion  allowed  me  to  count  them 
at  all.  After  circling  a  few  times  over  the  cage  many 
of  them  went  to  the  open  window,  but  returned 
immediately  to  recommence  their  evolutions.  The  most 
eager  alighted  on  the  cover,  trampling  on  one  another, 
jostling  one  another,  trying  to  get  the  best  places.  On 
the  other  side  of  the  barrier  the  captive,  her  great 
body  hanging  against  the  wire,  waited  immovable.  She 
betrayed  not  a  sign  of  emotion  in  the  face  of  this 
turbulent  swarm. 
Going  and  entering,  perched  on  the  cover  or  fluttering 
round  the  room,  for  more  than  three  hours  they  con- 
tinued their  frenzied  saraband.  But  the  sun  was  sinking, 
and  the  temperature  was  slowly  falling.  The  ardour  of 
the  butterflies  also  cooled.  Many  went  out  not  to  return. 
Others  took  up  their  positions  to  wait  for  the  gaieties  of 
the  following  day ;  they  clung  to  the  croSs-bars  of  the 
closed  window  as  the  males  of  the  Great  Peacock  had 
done.  The  rejoicings  were  over  for  the  day.  They 
would  certainly  be  renewed  on  the  morrow,  since  the 
courtship  was  without  result  on  account  of  the  barrier  of 
the  wire-gauze  cover. 
But,  alas  I  to  my  great  disappointment,  they  were  not 
resumed,  and  the  fault  was  mine.  Late  in  the  day  a 
Praying  Mantis  was  brought  to  me,  which  merited 
attention  on  account  of  its  exceptionally  small  size. 
Preoccupied  with  the  events  of  the  afternoon,  and 
absent-minded,   I   hastily  placed    the    predatory    insect 
THE  OAK  EGGAR  207 
under  the  same  cover  as  the  moth.  It  did  not  occur  to 
me  for  a  moment  that  this  cohabitation  could  lead  to  any 
harm.  The  Mantis  was  so  slender,  and  the  other  so 
corpulent  1 
Alas  !  I  little  knew  the  fury  of  carnage  animating  the 
creature  that  wielded  those  tiny  grappling-irons  !  Next 
morning  I  met  with  a  disagreeable  surprise  :  I  found  the 
little  Mantis  devouring  the  great  moth.  The  head  and 
the  fore  part  of  the  thorax  had  already  disappeared. 
Horrible  creature  1  at  what  an  evil  hour  you  came  to 
me  I  Goodbye  to  my  researches,  the  plans  which  I  had 
caressed  all  night  in  my  imagination  !  For  three  years 
for  lack  of  a  subject,  I  was  unable  to  resume  them. 
Bad  luck,  however,  was  not  to  make  me  forget  the 
little  I  had  learned.  On  one  single  occasion  about  sixty 
males  had  arrived.  Considering  the  rarity  of  the  Oak 
Eggar,  and  remembering  the  years  of  fruitless  search  on 
the  part  of  my  helpers  and  myself,  this  number  was  no 
less  than  stupefying.  The  undiscoverable  had  suddenly 
become  multitudinous  at  the  call  of  the  female. 
Whence  did  they  come  ?  From  all  sides,  and  un- 
doubtedly from  considerable  distances.  During  my 
prolonged  searches  every  bush  and  thicket  and  heap  of 
stones  in  my  neighbourhood  had  become  familiar  to  me, 
and  I  can  assert  that  the  Oak  Eggar  was  not  to  be  found 
there.  For  such  a  swarm  to  collect  as  I  found  in  my 
laboratory  the  moths  must  have  come  from  all  directions, 
from  the  whole  district,  and  within  a  radius  that  I  dare 
not  guess  at. 
Three  years  went  by  and  by  chance  two  more  cocoons 
of  the  Monk  or  Oak  Eggar  again  fell  into  my  hands. 
Both  produced   females,   at   an   interval  of  a  few  days 
208     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
towards  the  middle  of  August ;  so  that  I  was  able  to  vary 
and  repeat  my  experiments. 
I  rapidly  repeated  the  experiments  which  had  given  me 
such  positive  results  in  the  instance  of  the  Great  Peacock 
moth.  The  pilgrims  of  the  day  were  no  less  skilful  at 
finding  their  mates  than  the  pilgrims  of  the  night.  They 
laughed  at  all  my  tricks.  Infallibly  they  found  the 
prisoners  in  their  wire-gauze  prisons,  no  matter  in  what 
part  of  the  house  they  were  placed ;  they  discovered 
them  in  the  depths  of  a  wall-cupboard  ;  they  divined  the 
secret  of  all  manner  of  boxes,  provided  these  were  not 
rigorously  air-tight.  They  came  no  longer  when  the 
box  was  hermetically  sealed.  So  far  this  was  only  a 
repetition  of  the  feats  of  the  Great  Peacock. 
A  box  perfectly  closed,  so  that  the  air  contained 
therein  had  no  communication  with  the  external 
atmosphere,  left  the  male  in  complete  ignorance  of  the 
recluse.  Not  a  single  one  arrived,  even  when  the  box 
was  exposed  and  plain  to  see  on  the  window-sill.  Thus 
the  idea  of  strongly  scented  effluvia,  which  are  cut  off 
by  screens  of  wood,  metal,  card,  glass,  or  what  not, 
returns  with  double  force. 
I  have  shown  that  the  great  nocturnal  moth  was 
not  thrown  off  the  scent  by  the  powerful  odour  of 
naphthaline,  which  I  thought  would  mask  the  extra- 
subtle  emanations  of  the  female,  which  were  imper- 
ceptible to  human  olfactory  organs.  I  repeated  the 
experiment  with  the  Oak  Eggar.  This  time  I  used  all 
the  resources  of  scent  and  stench  that  my  knowledge 
of  drugs  would  permit. 
A  dozen  saucers  were  arranged,  some  in  the  interior 
of  the  wire-gauze  cover,  the  prison  of  the  female,  ancj 
THE  OAK  EGQAR  209 
some  around  it,  in  an  unbroken  circle.  Some  contained 
naphthaline  ;  others  the  essential  oil  of  spike-lavender  ; 
others  petroleum,  and  others  a  solution  of  alkaline 
sulphur  giving  off  a  stench  of  rotten  eggs.  Short  of 
asphyxiating  the  prisoner  I  could  do  no  more.  These 
arrangements  were  made  in  the  morning,  so  that  the 
room  should  be  saturated  when  the  congregation  of 
lovers  should  arrive. 
In  the  afternoon  the  laboratory  was  filled  with  the 
most  abominable  stench,  in  which  the  penetrating  aroma 
of  spike-lavender  and  the  stink  of  sulphuretted  hydro- 
gen were  predominant.  I  must  add  that  tobacco  was 
habitually  smoked  in  this  room,  and  in  abundance. 
The  concerted  odours  of  a  gas-works,  a  smoking-room, 
a  perfumery,  a  petroleum  well,  and  a  chemical  factory 
— would  they  succeed  in  confusing  the  male  moths  ? 
By  no  means.  About  three  o'clock  the  moths  arrived 
in  as  great  numbers  as  usual.  They  went  straight  to 
the  cage,  which  I  had  covered  with  a  thick  cloth  in 
order  to  add  to  their  difficulties.  Seeing  nothing  when 
once  they  had  entered,  and  immersed  in  an  extra- 
ordinary atmosphere  in  which  any  subtle  fragrance 
should  have  been  annihilated,  they  nevertheless  made 
straight  for  the  prisoner,  and  attempted  to  reach  her 
by  burrowing  under  the  linen  cloth.  My  artifice  had 
no  result. 
After  this  set-back,  so  obvious  in  its  consequences, 
which  only  repeated  the  lesson  of  the  experiments 
made  with  naphthaline  when  my  subject  was  the 
Great  Peacock,  I  ought  logically  to  have  abandoned 
the  theory  that  the  moths  are  guided  to  their  wed- 
ding festivities   by   means   of   strongly  scented   effluvia, 
15 
210     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
That  I  did  not  do  so  was  due  to  a  fortuitous  obser- 
vation. Chance  often  has  a  surprise  in  store  which 
sets  us  on  the  right  road  when  we  have  been  seeking 
it  in  vain. 
One  afternoon,  while  trying  to  determine  whether 
sight  plays  any  part  in  the  search  for  the  female  once 
the  males  had  entered  the  room,  I  placed  the  female 
in  a  bell-glass  and  gave  her  a  slender  twig  of  oak 
with  withered  leaves  as  a  support.  The  glass  was  set 
upon  a  table  facing  the  open  window.  Upon  enter- 
ing the  room  the  moths  could  not  fail  to  see  the 
prisoner,  as  she  stood  directly  in  the  way.  The  tray, 
containing  a  layer  of  sand,  on  which  the  female  had 
passed  the  preceding  day  and  night,  covered  with  a 
wire-gauze  dish-cover,  was  in  my  way.  Without  pre- 
meditation I  placed  it  at  the  other  end  of  the  room 
on  the  floor,  in  a  corner  where  there  was  but  little 
light.     It  was  a  dozen  yards  away  from  the  window. 
The  result  of  these  preparations  entirely  upset  my 
preconceived  ideas.  None  of  the  arrivals  stopped  at 
the  bell-glass,  where  the  female  was  plainly  to  be  seen, 
the  light  falling  full  upon  her  prison.  Not  a  glance, 
not  an  inquiry.  They  all  flew  to  the  further  end  of 
the  room,  into  the  dark  corner  where  I  had  placed 
the  tray  and  the  empty  dish-cover. 
They  alighted  on  the  wire  dome,  explored  it  per- 
sistently, beating  their  wings  and  jostling  one  another. 
All  the  afternoon,  until  sunset,  the  moths  danced  about 
the  empty  cage  the  same  saraband  that  the  actual 
presence  of  the  female  had  previously  evoked.  Finally 
they  departed:  not  all,  for  there  were  some  that  would 
not  go,  held  by  some  magical  attractive  force. 
THE  OAK  EGG  Alt  211 
Truly  a  strange  result !  The  moths  collected  where 
there  was  apparently  nothing  to  attract  them,  and 
remained  there,  unpersuaded  by  the  sense  of  sight ; 
they  passed  the  bell-glass  actually  containing  the  female 
without  halting  for  a  moment,  although  she  must  have 
been  seen  by  many  of  the  moths  both  going  and  coming. 
Maddened  by  a  lure,  they  paid  no  attention  to  the 
reality. 
What  was  the  lure  that  so  deceived  them  ?  All  the 
preceding  night  and  all  the  morning  the  female  had 
remained  under  the  wire-gauze  cover ;  sometimes  cling- 
ing to  the  wirework,  sometimes  resting  on  the  sand 
in  the  tray.  Whatever  she  touched — above  all,  ap- 
parently, with  her  distended  abdomen — was  impreg- 
nated, as  a  result  of  long  contact,  with  a  certain 
emanation.  This  was  her  lure,  her  love-philtre ;  this 
it  was  that  revolutionised  the  Oak-Eggar  world.  The 
sand  retained  it  for  some  time  and  diffused  the  effluvium 
in  turn. 
They  passed  by  the  glass  prison  in  which  the  female 
was  then  confined  and  hastened  to  the  meshes  of  wire 
and  the  sand  on  which  the  magic  philtre  had  been 
poured  ;  they  crowded  round  the  deserted  chamber  where 
nothing  of  the  magician  remained  but  the  odorous  testi- 
mony of  her  sojourn. 
The  irresistible  philtre  requires  time  for  its  elabora- 
tion. I  conceive  of  it  as  an  exhalation  which  is  given 
off  during  courtship  and  gradually  saturates  whatever  is 
in  contact  with  the  motionless  body  of  the  female.  If 
the  bell-glass  was  placed  directly  on  the  table,  or,  still 
better,  on  a  square  of  glass,  the  communication  between 
the   inside   and   the    outside   was   insufficient,    and   the 
212     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
males,  perceiving  no  odour,  did  not  arrive  so  long  as 
that  condition  of  things  obtained.  It  was  plain  that 
this  failure  of  transmission  was  not  due  to  the  action 
of  the  glass  as  a  screen  simply,  for  if  I  established  a 
free  communication  between  the  interior  of  the  bell- 
glass  and  the  open  air  by  supporting  it  on  three  small 
blocks,  the  moths  did  not  collect  round  it  at  once, 
although  there  were  plenty  in  the  room  ;  but  in  the 
course  of  half  an  hour  or  so  the  feminine  alembic 
began  to  operate,  and  the  visitors  crowded  round  the 
bell-glass  as  usual. 
In  possession  of  these  data  and  this  unexpected 
enlightenment  I  varied  the  experiments,  but  all  pointed 
to  the  same  conclusion.  In  the  morning  I  established 
the  female  under  the  usual  wire-gauze  cover.  For  sup- 
port I  gave  her  a  little  twig  of  oak  as  before.  There, 
motionless  as  if  dead,  she  crouched  for  hours,  half 
buried  in  the  dry  leaves,  which  would  thus  become 
impregnated  with  her  emanations. 
When  the  hour  of  the  daily  visits  drew  near  I  removed 
the  twig,  which  was  by  then  thoroughly  saturated  with 
the  emanations,  and  laid  it  on  a  chair  not  far  from  the 
open  window.  On  the  other  hand  I  left  the  female 
under  the  cover,  plainly  exposed  on  the  table  in  the 
middle  of  the  room. 
The  moths  arrived  as  usual  :  first  one,  then  two,  then 
three,  and  presently  five  and  six.  They  entered,  flew  out 
again,  re-entered,  mounted,  descended,  came  and  went, 
always  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  window,  not  far 
from  which  was  the  chair  on  which  the  twig  lay.  None 
made  for  the  large  table,  on  which,  a  few  steps  further 
irora  the  window,  the  female  awaited  them  in  the  wire- 
THE   OAK  EGGAR  213 
gauze  cover.  They  hesitated,  that  was  plain  ;  they  were 
still  seeking. 
Finally  they  found.  And  what  did  they  find  ?  Simply 
the  twig,  which  that  morning  had  served  the  ample 
matron  as  bed.  Their  wings  rapidly  fluttering,  they 
alighted  on  the  foliage  ;  they  explored  it  over  and  under, 
probed  it,  raised  it,  and  displaced  it  so  that  the  twig  finally 
fell  to  the  floor.  None  the  less  they  continued  to  probe 
between  the  leaves.  Under  the  buffets  and  the  draught 
of  their  wings  and  the  clutches  of  their  eager  feet  the 
little  bundle  of  leaves  ran  along  the  floor  like  a  scrap  of 
paper  patted  by  the  paws  of  a  cat. 
While  the  twig  was  sliding  away  with  its  band  of  inves- 
tigators two  new  arrivals  appeared.  The  chair  lay  in  their 
path.  They  stopped  at  it  and  searched  eagerly  at  the 
very  spot  on  which  the  twig  had  been  lying.  But  with 
these,  as  with  the  others,  the  real  object  of  their  desires 
was  there,  close  by,  under  a  wire  cover  which  was  not 
even  veiled.  None  took  any  note  of  it.  On  the  floor,  a 
handful  of  butterflies  were  still  hustling  the  bunch  of 
leaves  on  which  the  female  had  reposed  that  morning ; 
others,  on  the  chair,  were  still  examining  the  spot  where 
the  twig  had  lain.  The  sun  sank,  and  the  hour  of 
departure  struck.  Moreover,  the  emanations  were  grow- 
ing feebler,  were  evaporating.  Without  more  ado  the 
visitors  left.     We  bade  them  goodbye  till  the  morrow. 
The  following  tests  showed  me  that  the  leaf-covered 
twig  which  accidentally  enlightened  me  might  be  re- 
placed by  any  other  substance.  Some  time  before  the 
visitors  were  expected  I  placed  the  female  on  a  bed  of 
cloth  or  flannel,  card  or  paper.  I  even  subjected  her  to 
the  rigours  of  a  camp-bed  of  wood,  glass,  marble,  and 
214     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
metal.  All  these  objects,  after  a  contact  of  sufficient 
duration,  had  the  same  attraction  for  the  males  as  the 
female  moth  herself.  They  retained  this  property  for 
a  longer  or  shorter  time,  according  to  their  nature. 
Cardboard,  flannel,  dust,  sand,  and  porous  objects 
retained  it  longest.  Metals,  marble,  and  glass,  on  the 
contrary,  quickly  lost  their  efficacy.  Finally,  any- 
thing on  which  the  female  had  rested  communicated  its 
virtues  by  contact  ;  witness  the  butterflies  crowding  on 
the  straw-bottomed  chair  after  the  twig  fell  to  the  ground. 
Using  one  of  the  most  favourable  materials — flannel, 
for  example — I  witnessed  a  curious  sight.  I  placed  a 
morsel  of  flannel  on  which  the  mother  moth  had  been 
lying  all  the  morning  at  the  bottom  of  a  long  test-tube  or 
narrow-necked  bottle,  just  permitting  of  the  passage  of  a 
male  moth.  The  visitors  entered  the  vessels,  struggled, 
and  did  not  know  how  to  extricate  themselves.  I  had 
devised  a  trap  by  means  of  which  I  could  exterminate 
the  tribe.  Delivering  the  prisoners,  and  removing  the 
flannel,  which  I  placed  in  a  perfectly  closed  box,  I  found 
that  they  re-entered  the  trap  ;  attracted  by  the  effluvia 
that  the  flannel  had  communicated  to  the  glass. 
I  was  now  convinced.  To  call  the  moths  of  the 
countryside  to  the  wedding-feast,  to  warn  them  at  a 
distance  and  to  guide  them  the  nubile  female  emits  an 
odour  of  extreme  subtlety,  imperceptible  to  our  own 
olfactory  sense-organs.  Even  with  their  noses  touching 
the  moth,  none  of  my  household  has  been  able  to 
perceive  the  faintest  odour ;  not  even  the  youngest, 
whose  sensibility  is  as  yet  unvitiated. 
This  scent  readily  impregnates  any  object  on  which 
the  female  rests  for  any  length  of  time,  when  this  object 
THE  OAK  EGGAR  215 
becomes  a  centre  of  attraction  as  active  as  the  moth 
herself  until  the  effluvium  is  evaporated. 
Nothing  visible  betrays  the  lure.  On  a  sheet  of 
paper,  a  recent  resting-place,  around  which  the  visitors 
had  crowded,  there  was  no  visible  trace,  no  moisture ; 
the  surface  was  as  clean  as  before  the  impregnation. 
The  product  is  elaborated  slowly,  and  must  accumulate 
a  little  before  it  reveals  its  full  power.  Taken  from  her 
couch  and  placed  elsewhere  the  female  loses  her  attract- 
iveness for  the  moment  and  is  an  object  of  indifference  ; 
it  is  to  the  resting-place,  saturated  by  long  contact,  that 
the  arrivals  fly.     But  the  female  soon  regains  her  power. 
The  emission  of  the  warning  effluvium  is  more  or  less 
delayed  according  to  the  species.  The  recently  metamor- 
phosed female  must  mature  a  little  and  her  organs  must 
settle  to  their  work.  Born  in  the  morning,  the  female 
of  the  Great  Peacock  moth  sometimes  has  visitors  the 
night  of  the  same  day  ;  but  more  often  on  the  second 
day,  after  a  preparation  of  forty  hours  or  so.  The  Oak 
Eggar  does  not  publish  her  banns  of  marriage  before  the 
third  or  fourth  day. 
Let  us  return  for  a  moment  to  the  problematical 
function  of  the  antennae.  The  male  Oak  Eggar  has  a 
sumptuous  pair,  as  has  the  Great  Peacock  or  Emperor 
Moth.  Are  we  to  regard  these  silky  "feelers"  as  a  kind 
of  directing  compass  ? — I  resumed,  but  without  attaching 
much  importance  to  the  matter,  my  previous  experiment 
of  amputation.  None  of  those  operated  on  returned. 
Do  not  let  us  draw  conclusions  from  that  fact  alone.  We 
saw  in  the  case  of  the  Great  Peacock  that  more  serious 
reasons  than  the  truncation  of  the  antennae  made  return 
as  a  rule  impossible. 
216     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
Moreover,  a  second  Bombyx  or  Eggar,  the  Clover 
Moth,  very  like  the  Oak  Eggar,  and  like  it  superbly 
plumed,  poses  us  a  very  difficult  problem.  It  is  fairly 
abundant  around  my  home  ;  even  in  the  orchard  I  find 
its  cocoon,  which  is  easily  confounded  with  that  of  the 
Oak  Eggar.  I  was  at  first  deceived  by  the  resemblance. 
From  six  cocoons,  which  I  expected  to  yield  Oak  Eggars, 
I  obtained,  about  the  end  of  August,  six  females  of  the 
other  species.  Well  :  about  these  six  females,  born  in 
my  house,  never  a  male  appeared,  although  they  were 
undoubtedly  present  in  the  neighbourhood. 
If  the  ample  and  feathery  antennae  are  truly  sense- 
organs,  which  receive  information  of  distant  objects, 
why  were  not  my  richly  plumed  neighbours  aware  of 
what  was  passing  in  my  study  ?  Why  did  their  feathery 
"  feelers "  leave  them  in  ignorance  of  events  which 
would  have  brought  flocks  of  the  other  Eggar  ?  Once 
more,  the  organ  does  not  determine  the  aptitude.  One 
individual  or  species  is  gifted,  but  another  is  not,  despite 
an  organic  equality. 