CHAPTER   XI 
THE    ITALIAN   CRICKET 
My  house  shelters  no  specimens  of  the  domestic  Cricket, 
the  guest  of  bakeries  and  rustic  hearths.  But  although 
in  my  village  the  chinks  under  the  hearthstones  are 
mute,  the  nights  of  summer  are  musical  with  a  singer 
little  known  in  the  North.  The  sunny  hours  of  spring 
have  their  singer,  the  Field-Cricket  of  which  I  have 
written  ;  while  in  the  summer,  during  the  stillness 
of  the  night,  we  hear  the  note  of  the  Italian  Cricket, 
the  (Ecanthus  pellucens,  Scop.  One  diurnal  and  one 
nocturnal,  between  them  they  share  the  kindly  half  of 
the  year.  When  the  Field-Cricket  ceases  to  sing  it  is 
not  long  before  the  other  begins  its  serenade. 
The  Italian  Cricket  has  not  the  black  costume  and 
heavy  shape  characteristic  of  the  family.  It  is,  on  the 
contrary,  a  slender, weakly  creature  ;  its  colour  very  pale, 
indeed  almost  white,  as  is  natural  in  view  of  its  nocturnal 
habits.  In  handling  it  one  is  afraid  of  crushing  it 
between  the  fingers.  It  lives  an  aerial  existence  ;  on 
shrubs  and  bushes  of  all  kinds,  on  tall  herbage  and 
grasses,  and  rarely  descends  to  the  earth.  Its  song, 
the  pleasant  voice  of  the  calm,  hot  evenings  from  July  to 
ISO 
THE  ITALIAN   CRICKET  131 
October,  commences   at   sunset   and  continues  for   the 
greater  part  of  the  night. 
This  song  is  famihar  to  all  Provenpals  ;  for  the  least 
patch  of  thicket  or  tuft  of  grasses  has  its  group  of  instru- 
mentalists. It  resounds  even  in  the  granaries,  into  which 
the  insect  strays,  attracted  thither  by  the  fodder.  But  no 
one,  so  mysterious  are  the  manners  of  the  pallid  Cricket, 
knows  exactly  what  is  the  source  of  the  serenade,  which 
is  often,  though  quite  erroneously,  attributed  to  the 
common  field-cricket,  which  at  this  period  is  silent  and 
as  yet  quite  young. 
The  song  consists  of  a  Gri-i-if  Gri-i-i,  a  slow,  gentle 
note,  rendered  more  expressive  by  a  slight  tremor. 
Hearing  it,  one  divines  the  extreme  tenuity  and  the  ampli- 
tude of  the  vibrating  membranes.  If  the  insect  is  not 
in  any  way  disturbed  as  it  sits  in  the  low  foliage,  the 
note  does  not  vary,  but  at  the  least  noise  the  performer 
becomes  a  ventriloquist.  First  of  all  you  hear  it  there, 
close  by,  in  front  of  you,  and  the  next  moment  you  hear 
it  over  there,  twenty  yards  away ;  the  double  note 
decreased  in  volume  by  the  distance. 
You  go  forward.  Nothing  is  there.  The  sound  pro- 
ceeds again  from  its  original  point.  But  no — it  is  not 
there  ;  it  is  to  the  left  now — unless  it  is  to  the  right — or 
behind.  .  .  .  Complete  confusion  !  It  is  impossible  to 
detect,  by  means  of  the  ear,  the  direction  from  which  the 
chirp  really  comes.  Much  patience  and  many  precau- 
tions will  be  required  before  you  can  capture  the  insect 
by  the  light  of  the  lantern.  A  few  specimens  caught 
under  these  conditions  and  placed  in  a  cage  have  taught 
me  the  little  I  know  concerning  the  musician  who  so 
perfectly  deceives  our  ears. 
182    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
The  wing-covers  are  both  formed  of  a  dry,  broad 
membrane,  diaphanous  and  as  fine  as  the  white  skin  on 
the  outside  of  an  onion,  which  is  capable  of  vibrating 
over  its  whole  area.  Their  shape  is  that  of  the  segment 
of  a  circle,  cut  away  at  the  upper  end.  This  segment  is 
bent  at  a  right  angle  along  a  strong  longitudinal  nervure, 
and  descends  on  the  outer  side  in  a  flap  which  encloses 
the  insect's  flank  when  in  the  attitude  of  repose. 
The  right  wing-cover  overlaps  the  left.  Its  inner  edge 
carries,  on  the  under  side,  near  the  base,  a  callosity  from 
which  five  radiating  nervures  proceed  ;  two  of  them 
upwards  and  two  downwards,  while  the  fifth  runs 
approximately  at  right  angles  to  these.  This  last  nervure, 
which  is  of  a  slightly  reddish  hue,  is  the  fundamental 
element  of  the  musical  device  ;  it  is,  in  short,  the  bow, 
the  fiddlestick,  as  is  proved  by  the  fine  notches  which 
run  across  it.  The  rest  of  the  wing-cover  shows  a  few 
more  nervures  of  less  importance,  which  hold  the 
membrane  stretched  tight,  but  do  not  form  part  of  the 
friction  apparatus. 
The  left  or  lower  wing-cover  is  of  similar  structure, 
with  the  difference  that  the  bow,  the  callosity,  and  the 
nervures  occupy  the  upper  face.  It  will  be  found  that 
the  two  bows — that  is,  the  toothed  or  indented  nervures — 
cross  one  another  obliquely. 
When  the  note  has  its  full  volume,  the  wing-covers 
are  well  raised  above  the  body  like  a  wide  gauzy  sail, 
only  touching  along  the  internal  edges.  The  two  bows, 
the  toothed  nervures,  engage  obliquely  one  with  the 
other,  and  their  mutual  friction  causes  the  sonorous 
vibration  of  the  two  stretched  membranes. 
The  sound  can  be  modified  accordingly  as  the  strokes 
4 
THB    ITALIAN   CRICKET. 
To  fiT   p.    i3> 
THE  ITALIAN  CRICKET  13S 
of  each  bow  bear  upon  the  callosity,  which  is  itself 
serrated  or  wrinkled,  or  on  one  of  the  four  smooth 
radiating  nervures.  Thus  in  part  are  explained  the 
illusions  produced  by  a  sound  which  seems  to  come  first 
from  one  point,  then  from  another,  when  the  timid 
insect  is  alarmed. 
The  production  of  loud  or  soft  resounding  or  mufifled 
notes,  which  gives  the  illusion  of  distance,  the  principal 
element  in  the  art  of  the  ventriloquist,  has  another  and 
easily  discovered  source.  To  produce  the  loud,  open 
sounds  the  wing-covers  are  fully  lifted  ;  to  produce  the 
muted,  muffled  notes  they  are  lowered.  When  lowered 
their  outer  edges  press  more  or  less  lightly  on  the  soft 
flanks  of  the  insect,  thus  diminishing  the  vibratory 
area  and  damping  the  sound. 
The  gentle  touch  of  a  finger-tip  muffles  the  sharp, 
loud  ringing  of  a  glass  tumbler  or  "  musical-glass " 
and  changes  it  into  a  veiled,  indefinite  sound  which 
seems  to  come  from  a  distance.  The  White  Cricket 
knows  this  secret  of  acoustics.  It  misleads  those  that 
seek  it  by  pressing  the  edge  of  its  vibrating  membranes 
to  the  soft  flesh  of  its  abdomen.  Our  musical  instru- 
ments have  their  dampers ;  that  of  the  (Ecanthus 
pellucens  rivals  and  surpasses  them  m  simplicity  ol 
means  and  perfection  of  results. 
The  Field-Cricket  and  its  relatives  also  vary  the 
volume  of  their  song  by  raising  or  lowering  the  elytra 
so  as  to  enclose  the  abdomen  in  a  varying  degree,  but 
none  of  them  can  obtain  by  this  method  results  so 
deceptive  as  those  produced  by  the  Italian  Cricket. 
To  this  illusion  of  distance,  which  is  a  source  of 
perpetually  renewed  surprise,   evoked   by  the    slightest 
134    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
sound  of  our  footsteps,  we  must  add  the  purity  of  the 
sound,  and  its  soft  tremolo.  I  know  of  no  insect 
voice  more  gracious,  more  limpid,  in  the  profound 
peace  of  the  nights  of  August.  How  many  times,  per 
arnica  silentia  luncs,  have  J  lain  upon  the  ground,  in 
the  shelter  of  a  clump  of  rosemary,  to  listen  to  the 
delicious  concert  I 
The  nocturnal  Cricket  sings  continually  in  the  gardens. 
Each  tuft  of  the  red-flowered  cistus  has  its  band  of 
musicians,  and  each  bush  of  fragrant  lavender.  The 
shrubs  and  the  terebinth-trees  contain  their  orchestras. 
With  its  clear,  sweet  voice,  all  this  tiny  world  is 
questioning,  replying,  from  bush  to  bush,  from  tree 
to  tree  ;  or  rather,  indifferent  to  the  songs  of  others, 
each   little   being   is  singing  his  joys  to  himself  alone. 
Above  my  head  the  constellation  of  Cygnus  stretches 
its  great  cross  along  the  Milky  Way  ;  below,  all  around 
me,  palpitates  the  insect  symphony.  The  atom  telling 
of  its  joys  makes  me  forget  the  spectacle  of  the  stars. 
We  know  nothing  of  these  celestial  eyes  which  gaze 
upon  us,  cold  and  calm,  with  scintillations  like  the 
blinking  of  eyelids. 
Science  tells  us  of  their  distance,  their  speeds,  their 
masses,  their  volumes ;  it  burdens  us  with  stupendous 
numbers  and  stupefies  us  with  immensities ;  but  it  does 
not  succeed  in  moving  us.  And  why  ?  Because  it  lacks 
the  great  secret :  the  secret  of  life.  What  is  there,  up 
there  ?  What  do  these  suns  warm  ?  Worlds  analogous 
to  ours,  says  reason  ;  planets  on  which  life  is  evolving 
in  an  endless  variety  of  forms.  A  superb  conception 
of  the  universe,  but  after  all  a  pure  conception,  not 
based  upon  patent  facts  and  infallible  testimony  at  the 
THE  ITALIAN  CRICKET  135 
disposal  of  one  and  all.  The  probable,  even  the 
extremely  probable,  is  not  the  obvious,  the  evident, 
which  forces  itself  irresistibly  and  leaves  no  room  for 
doubt.  * 
But  in  your  company,  O  my  Crickets,  I  feel  the  thrill 
of  life,  the  soul  of  our  native  lump  of  earth  ;  and  for 
this  reason,  as  I  lean  against  the  hedge  of  rosemary, 
I  bestow  only  an  absent  glance  upon  the  constellation 
of  Cygnus,  but  give  all  my  attention  to  your  serenade. 
A  little  animated  slime,  capable  of  pleasure  and  pain, 
surpasses  in  interest  the  universe  of  dead  matter. 