CHAPTER  IX 
THE  GOLDEN  GARDENER. — COURTSHIP 
It  is  generally  recognized  that  the  Carabus  auratus  is 
an  active  exterminator  of  caterpillars  ;  on  this  account 
in  particular  it  deserves  its  title  of  Gardener  Beetle  ;  it 
is  the  vigilant  policeman  of  our  kitchen-gardens,  our 
flower-beds  and  herbaceous  borders.  If  my  inquiries 
add  nothing  to  its  established  reputation  in  this  respect, 
they  will  nevertheless,  in  the  following  pages,-  show  the 
insect  in  a  light  as  yet  unsuspected.  The  ferocious  beast 
of  prey,  the  ogre  who  devours  all  creatures  that  are  not 
too  strong  for  him,  is  himself  killed  and  eaten  :  by  his 
fellows,  and  by  many  others. 
Standing  one  day  in  the  shadow  of  the  plane-trees  that 
grow  before  my  door,  I  see  a  Golden  Gardener  go  by 
as  if  on  pressing  business.  The  pilgrim  is  well  met ; 
he  will  go  to  swell  the  contents  of  my  vivarium.  In 
capturing  him  I  notice  that  the  extremities  of  the  wing- 
covers  are  slightly  damaged.  Is  this  the  result  of  a 
struggle  between  rivals  ?  There  is  nothing  to  tell  me. 
The  essential  thing  is  that  the  insect  should  not  be 
handicapped    by   any    serious    injury.      Inspected,   and 
found   to   be   without   any   serious   wound   and   fit  for 
ui 
112    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
service,    it  is  introduced   into  the  glass  dwelling  of  its 
twenty-five  future  companions. 
Next  day  I  look  for  the  new  inmate.  It  is  dead.  Its 
comrades  have  attacked  it  during  the  night  and  have 
cleaned  out  its  abdomen,  insufficiently  protected  by  the 
damaged  wing-covers.  The  operation  has  been  performed 
very  cleanly,  without  any  dismemberment.  Claws,  head, 
corselet,  all  are  correctly  in  place  ;  the  abdomen  only 
has  a  gaping  wound  through  which  its  contents  have 
been  removed.  What  remains  is  a  kind  of  golden  shell, 
formed  of  the  two  conjoined  elytra.  The  shell  of  an 
oyster  emptied  of  its  inmate  is  not  more  empty. 
This  result  astonishes  me,  for  I  have  taken  good  care 
that  the  cage  should  never  be  long  without  food.  The 
snail,  the  pine-cockchafer,  the  Praying  Mantis,  the  lob- 
worm, the  caterpillar,  and  other  favourite  insects,  have 
all  been  given  in  alternation  and  in  sufficient  quantities. 
In  devouring  a  brother  whose  damaged  armour  lent  itself 
to  any  easy  attack  my  beetles  had  not  the  excuse  of 
hunger. 
Is  it  their  custom  to  kill  the  wounded  and  to  evis- 
cerate such  of  their  fellows  as  suffer  damage  ?  Pity  is 
unknown  among  insects.  At  the  sight  of  the  desperate 
struggles  of  a  crippled  fellow-creature  none  of  the  same 
family  will  cry  a  halt,  none  will  attempt  to  come  to  its 
aid.  Among  the  carnivorous  insects  the  matter  may 
develop  to  a  tragic  termination.  With  them,  the  passers- 
by  will  often  run  to  the  cripple.  But  do  they  do  so  in 
order  to  help  it  ?  By  no  means  :  merely  to  taste  its 
flesh,  and,  if  they  find  it  agreeable,  to  perform  the  most 
radical  cure  of  its  ills  by  devouring  it. 
It  is  possible,  therefore,  that  th**   Gardener    with  the 
THE  GOLDEN  GARDENER.— COURTSHIP  113 
injured  wing-covers  had  tempted  his  fellows  by  the  sight 
of  his  imperfectly  covered  back.  They  saw  in  their 
defenceless  comrade  a  permissible  subject  for  dissection. 
But  do  they  respect  one  another  when  there  is  no 
previous  wound  ?  At  first  there  was  every  appearance 
that  their  relations  were  perfectly  pacific.  During  their 
sanguinary  meals  there  is  never  a  scuffle  between  the 
feasters  ;  nothing  but  mere  mouth-to-mouth  thefts. 
There  are  no  quarrels  during  the  long  siestas  in  the 
shelter  of  the  board.  Half  buried  in  the  cool  earth,  my 
twenty-five  subjects  slumber  and  digest  their  food  in 
peace  ;  they  lie  sociably  near  one  another,  each  in  his 
little  trench.  If  I  raise  the  plank  they  awake  and  are  off, 
running  hither  and  thither,  constantly  encountering  one 
another  without  hostilities. 
The  profoundest  peace  is  reigning,  and  to  all  ap- 
pearances will  last  for  ever,  when  in  the  early  days  of 
June  I  find  a  dead  Gardener.  Its  limbs  are  intact ; 
it  is  reduced  to  the  condition  of  a  mere  golden  husk  ; 
like  the  defenceless  beetle  I  have  already  spoken  of,  it 
is  as  empty  as  an  oyster-shell.  Let  us  examine  the 
remains.  All  is  intact,  save  the  huge  breach  in  the 
abdomen.  So  the  insect  was  sound  and  unhurt  when 
the  others  attacked  it. 
A  few  days  pass,  and  anothei  Gardener  is  killed  and 
dealt  with  as  before,  with  no  disorder  in  the  component 
pieces  of  its  armour.  Let  us  place  the  dead  insect  on  its 
belly ;  it  is  to  all  appearances  untouched.  Place  it  on 
its  back  ;  it  is  hollow,  and  has  no  trace  of  flesh  left 
beneath  its  carapace.  A  little  later,  and  I  find  another 
empty  relic  ;  then  another,  and  yet  another,  until  the 
population  of  my  menagerie  is  rapidly  shrinking.     If  this 
9 
114    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN   THE  INSECT  WORLD 
insensate  massacre  continues  I  shall  soon  find  my  cage 
depopulated. 
Are  my  beetles  hoary  with  age  ?  Do  they  die  a  natural 
death,  and  do  the  survivors  then  clean  out  the  bodies  ? 
Or  is  the  population  being  reduced  at  the  expense  of 
sound  and  healthy  insects  ?  It  is  not  easy  to  elucidate 
the  matter,  since  the  atrocities  are  commonly  perpetrated 
in  the  night.  But,  finally,  with  vigilance,  on  two  occa- 
sions, I  surprise  the  beetles  at  their  work  in  the  light 
of  day. 
Towards  the  middle  of  June  a  female  attacks  a  male 
before  my  eyes.  The  male  is  recognisable  by  his  slightly 
smaller  size.  The  operation  commences.  Raising  the 
ends  of  the  wing-covers,  the  assailant  seizes  her  victim  by 
the  extremity  of  the  abdomen,  from  the  dorsal  side. 
She  pulls  at  him  furiously,  eagerly  munching  with  her 
mandibles.  The  victim,  who  is  in  the  prime  of  life,  does 
not  defend  himself,  nor  turn  upon  his  assailant.  He 
pulls  his  hardest  in  the  opposite  direction  to  free  himself 
from  those  terrible  fangs  ;  he  advances  and  recoils  as  he 
is  overpowered  by  or  overpowers  the  assassin  ;  and  there 
his"  resistance  ends.  The  struggle  lasts  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Other  beetles,  passing  by,  call  a  halt,  and  seem  to 
say  "  My  turn  next  I  "  Finally,  redoubling  his  efforts, 
the  male  frees  himself  and  flies.  If  he  had  not  succeeded 
in  escaping  the  ferocious  female  would  undoubtedly 
have  eviscerated  him. 
A  few  days  later  I  witness  a  similar  scene,  but  this 
time  the  tragedy  is  played  to  the  end.  Once  more  it  is  a 
female  who  seizes  a  male  from  behind.  With  no  other 
protest  except  his  futile  efforts  to  escape,  the  victim  is 
forced  to  submit.     The  skin  finally  yields  ;   the  wound 
THE    nOLDEN    CARDF.NER  :    THE   MATIMG   SEASON   OVER,    THE    MALES 
ARE   EVISCERATED   BY  THE   FEMALES. 
THE  GOLDEN  GARDENER.— COURTSHIP  115 
enlarges,  and  the  viscera  are  removed  and  devoured  by 
the  matron,  who  empties  the  carapace,  her  head  buried 
in  the  body  of  her  late  companion.  The  legs  of  the 
miserable  victim  tremble,  announcing  the  end.  The 
murderess  takes  no  notice  ;  she  continues  to  rummage  as 
far  as  she  can  reach  for  the  narrowing  of  the  thorax. 
Nothing  is  left  but  the  closed  boat-shaped  wing-covers 
and  the  fore  parts  of  the  body.  The  empty  shell  is  left 
lying  on  the  scene  of  the  tragedy. 
In  this  way  must  have  perished  the  beetles — always 
males — whose  remains  I  find  in  the  cage  from  time  to 
time  ;  thus  the  survivors  also  will  perish.  Between  the 
middle  of  June  and  the  ist  of  August  the  inhabitants 
of  the  cage,  twenty-five  in  number  at  the  outsec,  are 
reduced  to  five,  all  of  whom  are  females.  All  the  males, 
to  the  number  of  twenty,  have  disappeared,  eviscerated 
and  completely  emptied.  And  by  whom  ?  Apparently 
by  the  females. 
That  this  is  the  case  is  attested  in  the  first  place  by 
the  two  assaults  of  which  I  was  perchance  the  witness  ; 
on  two  occasions,  in  broad  daylight,  I  saw  the  female 
devouring  the  male,  having  opened  the  abdomen  under 
the  wing-covers,  or  having  at  least  attempted  to  do  so. 
As  for  the  rest  of  the  massacres,  although  direct  observa 
tion  was  lacking,  I  had  one  very  valuable  piece  of 
evidence.  As  we  have  seen,  the  victim  does  not  retaliate, 
does  not  defend  himself,  but  simply  tries  to  escape  by 
pulling  himself  away. 
If  it  were  a  matter  of  an  ordinary  fight,  a  conflict 
such  as  might  arise  in  the  struggle  for  life,  the  creature 
attacked  would  obviously  retaliate,  since  he  is  perfectly 
well  able  to  do  so ;   in  an   ordinary  conflict  he  would 
TlO    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  LNSECT  WORLD 
meet  force  by  force,  and  return  bite  for  bite.  His 
strength  would  enable  him  to  come  well  out  of  a 
struggle,  but  the  foolish  creature  allows  himself  to 
be  devoured  without  retaliating.  It  seems  as  though 
an  invincible  repugnance  prevents  him  from  ofTering 
resistance  and  in  turn  devouring  the  devourer.  This 
tolerance  reminds  one  of  the  scorpion  of  Languedoc, 
which  on  the  termination  of  the  hymeneal  rites  allows 
the  female  to  devour  him  without  attempting  to  employ 
his  weapon,  the  venomous  dagger  which  would  form  a 
formidable  defence  ;  it  reminds  us  also  of  the  male  of 
the  Praying  Mantis,  which  still  embraces  the  female 
though  reduced  to  a  headless  trunk,  while  the  latter 
devours  him  by  small  mouthfuls,  with  no  rebellion  or 
defence  on  his  part.  There  are  other  examples  of 
hymeneal  rites  to  which  the  male  offers  no  resistance. 
The  males  of  my  menagerie  of  Gardeners,  one  and 
all  eviscerated,  speak  of  similar  customs.  They  are  the 
victims  of  the  females  when  the  latter  have  no  further 
use  for  them.  For  four  months,  from  April  to  August, 
the  insects  pair  off  continually  ;  sometimes  tentatively, 
but  usually  the  mating  is  effective.  The  business  of 
mating  is  all  but  endless  for  these  fiery  spirits. 
The  Gardener  is  prompt  and  businesslike  in  his 
affairs  of  the  heart.  In  the  midst  of  the  crowd,  with  no 
preliminary  courtship,  the  male  throws  himself  upon  the 
female.  The  female  thus  embraced  raises  her  head  a 
trifle  as  a  sign  of  acquiescence,  while  the  cavalier  beats 
the  back  of  her  neck  with  his  antennae.  The  embrace  is 
brief,  and  they  abruptly  separate ;  after  a  little  refresh- 
ment the  two  parties  are  ready  for  other  adventures,  and 
yet  others,  so  long  as  there  are  males  available.    After 
THE  GOLDEN  GARDENER— COURTSHIP  117 
the  feast,  a  brief  and  primitive  wooing ;  after  the  wooing, 
the  feast ;  in  such  delights  the  hfe  of  the  Gardener 
passes. 
The  females  of  my  collection  were  in  no  proper  ratio 
to  the  number  of  aspiring  lovers  ;  there  were  five  females 
to  twenty  males.  No  matter  ;  there  was  no  rivalry,  no 
hustling;  all  went  peacefully  and  sooner  or  later  each 
was  satisfied. 
I  should  have  preferred  a  better  proportioned  assembly. 
Chance,  not  choice,  had  given  me  that  at  my  disposal. 
In  the  early  spring  I  had  collected  all  the  Gardeners  I 
could  find  under  the  stones  of  the  neighbourhood,  with- 
out distinguishing  the  sexes,  for  they  are  not  easy  to 
recognise  merely  by  external  characteristics.  Later  on  I 
learned  by  watching  them  that  a  slight  excess  of  size  was 
the  distinctive  sign  of  the  female.  My  menagerie,  so  ill- 
proportioned  in  the  matter  of  sex,  was  therefore  the 
result  of  chance.  I  do  not  suppose  this  preponderance  of 
males  exists  in  natural  conditions.  On  the  other  hand, 
one  never  sees  such  numerous  groups  at  liberty,  in  the 
shelter  of  the  same  stone.  The  Gardener  lives  an 
almost  solitary  life  ;  it  is  rarely  that  one  finds  two  or 
three  beneath  the  same  object  of  shelter.  The  gathering 
in  my  menagerie  was  thus  exceptional,  although  it  did  not 
lead  to  confusion.  There  is  plenty  of  room  in  the  glass 
cage  for  excursions  to  a  distance  and  for  all  their  habitual 
manoeuvres.  Those  who  wish  for  solitude  can  obtain  it ; 
those  who  wish  for  company  need  not  seek  it. 
For  the  rest,  captivity  cannot  lie  heavily  on  them  ; 
that  is  proved  by  their  frequent  feasts,  their  constant 
mating.  They  could  not  thrive  better  in  the  open  ;  per- 
haps not  so  well^  for  food  is  less  abundant  under  natural 
118    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
conditions.  In  the  matter  of  well-being  the  prisoners  are 
in  a  normal  condition,  favourable  to  the  maintenance  of 
their  usual  habits. 
It  is  true  that  encounters  of  beetle  with  beetle  are  more 
frequent  here  than  in  the  open.  Hence,  no  doubt,  arise 
more  opportunities  for  the  females  to  persecute  the  males 
whom  they  no  longer  require  ;  to  fall  upon  them  from 
the  rear  and  eviscerate  them.  This  pursuit  of  their  one- 
time lovers  is  aggravated  by  their  confined  quarters  ;  but 
it  certainly  is  not  caused  thereby,  for  such  customs  are 
not  suddenly  originated. 
The  mating  season  over,  the  female  encountering  a 
male  in  the  open  must  evidently  regard  him  as  fair  game, 
and  devour  him  as  the  termination  of  the  matrimonial 
rites.  I  have  turned  over  many  stones,  but  have  never 
chanced  upon  this  spectacle,  but  what  has  occurred  in 
my  menagerie  is  sufficient  to  convince  me.  What  a 
world  these  beetles  live  in,  where  the  matron  devours  her 
mate  so  soon  as  her  fertility  delivers  her  from  the  need  of 
him  1  And  how  lightly  the  males  must  be  regarded  by 
custom,  to  be  served  in  this  manner  1 
Is  this  practice  of  post-matrimonial  cannibalism  a 
general  custom  in  the  insect  world  ?  For  the  moment, 
I  can  recollect  only  three  characteristic  examples  :  those 
of  the  Praying  Mantis,  the  Golden  Gardener,  and  the 
scorpion  of  Languedoc.  An  analogous  yet  less  brutal 
practice — for  the  victim  is  defunct  before  he  is  eaten — is 
a  characteristic  of  the  Locust  family.  The  female  of  the 
white-faced  Decticus  will  eagerly  devour  the  body  of  her 
dead  mate,  as  will  the  Green  Grasshopper. 
To  a  certain  extent  this  custom  is  excused  by  the 
nature  of  the  insect's  diet ;  the  Decticus  and  the  Grass- 
THE  GOLDEN  GARDENER— COURTSHIP  IIJ 
hopper  are  essentially  carnivorous.  Encountering  a  dead 
body  of  their  own  species,  a  female  will  devour  it,  even  if 
it  be  the  body  of  her  latest  mate. 
But  what  are  we  to  say  in  palliation  of  the  vegetarians  ? 
At  the  approach  of  the  breeding  season,  before  the  eggs 
are  laid,  the  Ephippigera  turns  upon  her  still  living  mate, 
disembowels  him,  and  eats  as  much  of  him  as  her 
appetite  will  allow. 
The  cheerful  Cricket  shows  herself  in  a  new  light  at 
this  season  ;  she  attacks  the  mate  who  lately  wooed  her 
with  such  impassioned  serenades ;  she  tears  his  wings, 
breaks  his  musical  thighs,  and  even  swallows  a  few 
mouthfuls  of  the  instrumentalist.  It  is  probable  that  this 
deadly  aversion  of  the  female  for  the  male  at  the  end  of 
the  mating  season  is  fairly  common,  especially  among 
the  carnivorous  insects.  But  what  is  the  object  of  this 
atrocious  custom  ?  That  is  a  question  I  shall  not  fail  to 
answer  when  circumstances  permit. 