CHAPTER  XVI 
A  TRUFFLE-HUNTER  :   THE   BOLBOCERAS   GALLICUS 
In  the  matter  of  physics  we  hear  of  nothing  to-day  but 
the  Rontgen  rays,  which  penetrate  opaque  bodies  and 
photograph  the  invisible.  A  splendid  discovery ;  but 
nothing  very  remarkable  as  compared  with  the  surprises 
reserved  for  us  by  the  future,  when,  better  instructed  as 
to  the  why  and  wherefore  of  things  than  now,  and 
supplementing  our  feeble  senses  by  means  of  science, 
we  shall  succeed  in  rivalling,  however  imperfectly,  the 
sensorial  acuteness  of  the  lower  animals. 
How  enviable,  in  how  many  cases,  is  the  superiority 
or  the  heasts  !  It  makes  us  realise  the  insufficiency  of 
our  impre&riions,  and  the  very  indifferent  efficacy  of  our 
sense-organs ;  ii  proclaims  realities  which  amaze  us,  so 
far  are  they  beyond  our  own  attributes. 
A  miserable  caterpillar,  the  Processional  caterpillar, 
found  on  the  pine-tree,  has  its  back  covered  with 
meteorological  spiracles  which  sense  the  coming  weather 
and  fotetell  the  storm;  the  bird  of  prey,  that  incom- 
parable watchman,  sees  the  fallen  mule  from  the  heights 
of  the  clouds  ;  the  blind  bats  guided  their  flight  without 
collision  through  the  inextricable  labyrinth  of  threads 
devised  by  Spallanzani ;  the  carrier  pigeon,  at  a  hundred 
n? 
218     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
leagues  from  home,  infallibly  regains  its  loft  across 
immensities  which  it  has  never  known  ;  and  within  the 
limits  of  its  more  modest  powers  a  bee,  the  Chalicodoma, 
also  adventures  into  the  unknown,  accomplishing  its  long 
journey  and  returning  to  its  group  of  cells. 
Those  who  have  never  seen  a  dog  seeking  truffles  have 
missed  one  of  the  finest  achievements  of  the  olfactory 
sense.  Absorbed  in  his  duties,  the  animal  goes  forward, 
scenting  the  wind,  at  a  moderate  pace.  He  stops, 
questions  the  soil  with  his  nostrils,  and,  without  excite- 
ment, scratches  the  earth  a  few  times  with  one  paw. 
"  There  it  is,  master  I "  his  eyes  seem  to  say  :  "  there  it  is  ! 
On  the  faith  of  a  dog,  there  are  truffles  here  I " 
He  says  truly.  The  master  digs  at  the  point  indicated. 
If  the  spade  goes  astray  the  dog  corrects  the  digger, 
sniffing  at  the  bottom  of  the  hole.  Have  no  fear  thai 
stones  and  roots  will  confuse  him  ;  in  spite  of  depth 
and  obstacles,  the  truffle  will  be  found.  A  dog's  nose 
cannot  lie. 
I  have  referred  to  the  dog's  speciality  as  a  subtle  sense 
of  smell.  That  is  certainly  what  I  mean,  if  you  will 
understand  by  that  that  the  nasal  passages  of  the  animal 
are  the  seat  of  the  perceptive  organ  ;  but  is  the  thing 
perceived  always  a  simple  smell  in  the  vulgar  acceptation 
of  the  term — an  effluvium  such  as  our  own  senses 
perceive  ?  1  have  certain  reasons  for  doubting  this, 
which  I  will  proceed  to  relate. 
On  various  occasions  I  have  had  the  good  fortune  to 
accompany  a  truffle-dog  of  first-class  capacities  on  his 
rounds.  Certainly  there  was  not  much  outside  show 
about  him,  this  artist  that  I  so  desired  to  see  at  work ; 
a  dog  of  doubtful  breed,  placid  and  meditative  ;  uncouth, 
A  TRUFFLE-HUNTER  219 
ungroomed,  w/id  quite  inadmissible  to  the  intimacies  of 
the  hearthrug.     Talent  and  poverty  are  often  mated. 
His  master,  a  celebrated  rabassier^  of  the  village,  being 
convinced  that  my  object  was  not  to  steal  his  professional 
secrets,  and  so  sooner  or  later  to  set  up  in  business  as  a 
competitor,  admitted  me  of  his  company,  a  favour  of 
which  he  was  not  prodigal.  From  the  moment  of  his 
regarding  me  not  as  an  apprentice,  but  merely  as  a 
curious  spectator,  who  drew  and  wrote  about  sub- 
terranean vegetable  affairs,  but  had  no  wish  to  carry 
to  market  my  bagful  of  these  glories  of  the  Christmas 
goose,  the  excellent  man  lent  himself  generously  to  my 
designs. 
It  was  agreed  between  us  that  the  dog  should  act 
according  to  his  own  instincts,  receiving  the  customary 
reward,  after  each  discovery,  no  matter  what  its  size,  of 
a  crust  of  bread  the  size  of  a  finger-nail.  Every  spot 
scratched  by  his  paw  should  be  excavated,  and  the  object 
indicated  was  to  be  extracted  without  reference  to  its 
marketable  value.  In  no  case  was  the  experience  of  the 
master  to  intervene  in  order  to  divert  the  dog  from  a 
spot  where  the  general  aspect  of  things  indicated  that  no 
commercial  results  need  be  expected,  for  I  was  more 
concerned  with  the  miserable  specimens  unfit  for  the 
market  than  with  the  choice  specimens,  though  of  course 
the  latter  were  welcomed. 
Thus  conducted,  this  subterranean  botanising  was 
extremely  fruitful.  With  that  perspicacious  nose  of 
his  the  dog  obtained  for  me  both  large  and  small, 
fresh  and  putrid,  odorous  and   inodorous,  fragrant  and 
'  Rabasso  is  the  Provengal  name  for  the  truffle ;  hence  a  truffle- 
bunter  is  known  as  a  rabassigr. 
220     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
offensive.  I  was  amazed  at  my  collection,  which  com- 
prised the  greater  number  of  the  hypogenous  fungi  of 
the  neighbourhood. 
What  a  variety  of  structure,  and  above  all  of  odour, 
the  primordial  quality  in  this  question  of  scent !  There 
were  some  that  had  no  appreciable  scent  beyond  a  vague 
fungoid  flavour,  more  or  less  common  to  all.  Others 
smelt  of  turnips,  of  sour  cabbage ;  some  were  fetid, 
sufficiently  so  to  make  the  house  of  the  collector 
noisome.  Only  the  true  truffle  possessed  the  aroma 
dear  to  epicures.  If  odour,  as  we  understand  it,  is  the 
dog's  only  guide,  how  does  he  manage  to  follow  that 
guide  amidst  all  these  totally  different  odours  ?  Is  he 
warned  of  the  contents  of  the  subsoil  by  a  general 
emanation,  by  that  fungoid  effluvium  common  to  all 
the  species  ?  Thus  a  somewhat  embarrassing  question 
arises. 
I  paid  special  attention  to  the  ordmary  toadstools  and 
mushrooms,  which  announced  their  near  advent  by 
cracking  the  surface  of  the  soil.  Now  these  points, 
where  my  eyes  divined  the  cryptogam  pushing  back  the 
soil  with  its  button-like  heads,  these  points,  where  the 
ordinary  fungoid  odour  was  certainly  very  pronounced, 
were  never  selected  by  the  dog.  He  passed  them  dis- 
dainfully, without  a  sniff,  without  a  stroke  of  the  paw. 
Yet  the  fungi  were  underground,  and  their  odour  was 
similar  to  that  I  have  already  referred  to. 
I  came  back  from  my  outings  with  the  conviction  that 
the  truffle-finding  nose  has  some  better  guide  than  odour 
such  as  we  with  our  sense-organs  conceive  it.  It  must 
perceive  effluvia  of  another  order  as  well ;  entirely 
mysterious    to    us,   and    therefore    not    utilised.     Light 
Tmrnn""'*^ 
A  TRUFFLE-HtJNTEB  221 
has  its  dark  rays — rays  without  effect  upon  our  retinas, 
but  not  apparently  on  all.  Why  should  not  the  domain 
of  smell  have  its  secret  emanations,  unknown  to  our 
senses  and  perceptible  to  a  different  sense-organ  ? 
If  the  scent  of  the  dog  leaves  us  perplexed  in  the  sense 
that  we  cannot  possibly  say  precisely,  cannot  even  suspect 
what  it  is  that  the  dog  perceives,  at  least  it  is  clear  that 
it  would  be  erroneous  to  refer  everything  to  human 
standards.  The  world  of  sensations  is  far  larger  than 
the  limits  of  our  own  sensibility.  What  numbers  of 
facts  relating  to  the  interplay  of  natural  forces  must 
escape  us  for  want  of  sufficiently  sensitive  organs  I 
The  unknown  —  that  inexhaustible  field  in  which 
the  men  of  the  future  will  try  their  strength — has 
harvests  in  store  for  us  beside  which  our  present 
knowledge  would  show  as  no  more  than  a  wretched 
gleaning.  Under  the  sickle  of  science  will  one  day 
fall  the  sheaves  whose  grain  would  appear  to-day 
as  senseless  paradoxes.  Scientific  dreams  ?  No,  if 
you  please,  but  undeniable  positive  realities,  affirmed 
by  the  brute  creation,  which  in  certain  respects  has 
so  great  an  advantage  over  us. 
Despite  his  long  practice  of  his  calling,  despite 
the  scent  of  the  object  he  was  seeking,  the  rabassier 
could  not  divine  the  presence  of  the  truffle,  which 
ripens  in  winter  under  the  soil,  at  a  depth  of  a  foot 
or  two  ;  he  must  have  the  help  of  a  dog  or  a  pig, 
whose  scent  is  able  to  discover  the  secrets  of  the 
soil.  These  secrets  are  known  to  various  insects 
even  better  than  to  our  two  auxiliaries.  They  have  in 
exceptional  perfection  the  power  of  discovering  the 
tubers  on  which  their  larvae  are  nourished. 
222     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
From  truffles  dug  up  in  a  spoiled  condition,  peopled 
with  vermin,  and  placed  in  that  condition,  with  a  bed 
of  fresh  sand,  in  a  glass  jar,  I  have  in  the  past  obtained 
a  small  red  beetle,  known  as  the  truffle-beetle  (Aniso- 
toma  cinnamomea,  Panz.),  and  various  Diptera,  among 
which  is  a  Sapromyzon  which,  by  its  sluggish  flight 
and  its  fragile  form,  recalls  the  Scatophaga  scybalaria, 
the  yellow  velvety  fiy  which  is  found  in  human  excre- 
ment in  the  autumn.  The  latter  finds  its  refuge  on  the 
surface  of  the  soil,  at  the  foot  of  a  wall  or  hedge  or 
under  a  bush  ;  but  how  does  the  former  know  just 
where  the  truffle  lies  under  the  soil,  or  at  what  depth  ? 
To  penetrate  to  that  depth,  or  to  seek  in  the  subsoil, 
is  impossible.  Its  fragile  limbs,  barely  able  to  move  a 
grain  of  sand,  its  extended  wings,  which  would  bar 
all  progress  in  a  narrow  passage,  and  its  costume  of 
bristling  silken  pile,  which  would  prevent  it  from 
slipping  through  crevices,  all  make  such  a  task  impos- 
sible. The  Sapromyzon  is  forced  to  lay  its  eggs  on 
the  surface  of  the  soil,  but  it  does  so  on  the  precise 
spot  which  overlies  the  truffle,  for  the  grubs  would 
perish  if  they  had  to  wander  at  random  in  search  of 
their  provender,  the  truffle  being  always  thinly  sown. 
The  truffle  fly  is  informed  by  the  sense  of  smell 
of  the  points  favourable  to  its  maternal  plans  ;  it  has 
the  talents  of  the  truffle-dog,  and  doubtless  in  a  higher 
degree,  for  it  knows  naturally,  without  having  been 
taught,  what  its  rival  only  acquires  through  an 
artificial  education. 
It  would  be  not  uninteresting  to  follow  the  Sapro- 
myzon in  its  search  in  the  open  woods.  Such  a  feat 
did  not  strike   me   as   particularly   possible  :  the    insect 
A  TRUFFLE-HUNTER  223 
is  rare,  flies  off  quickly  when  alarmed,  and  is  lost  to 
view.  To  observe  it  closely  under  such  conditions 
would  mean  a  loss  of  time  and  an  assiduity  of  which 
I  do  not  feel  capable.  Another  truffle-hunter  will 
show  us  what  we  could  hardly  learn  from  the  fly. 
This  is  a  pretty  little  black  beetle,  with  a  pale,  velvety 
abdomen ;  a  spherical  insect,  as  large  as  a  biggish 
cherry-stone.  Its  official  title  is  Bolboceras  gallicus, 
Muls.  By  rubbing  the  end  of  the  abdomen  against  the 
edge  of  the  wing-cases  it  produces  a  gentle  chirping 
sound  like  the  cheeping  of  nestlings  when  the  mother- 
bird  returns  to  the  nest  with  food.  The  male  wears 
a  graceful  horn  on  his  head  ;  a  duplicate,  in  little,  of 
that  of  the  Copris  hispanus. 
Deceived  by  this  horn,  I  at  first  took  the  insect  for 
a  member  of  the  corporation  of  dung-beetles,  and  as 
such  I  reared  it  in  captivity.  I  offered  it  the  kind  of 
diet  most  appreciated  by  its  supposed  relatives,  but 
never,  never  would  it  touch  such  food.  For  whom  did 
I  take  it?  Fie  upon  me  1  To  offer  ordure  to  an 
epicure  1  It  required,  if  not  precisely  the  truffle 
known  to  our  chefs  and  gourmets,  at  least  its  equivalent. 
This  characteristic  I  grasped  only  after  patient 
investigation.  At  the  southern  foot  of  the  hills  of 
S^rignan,  not  far  from  the  village,  is  a  wood  of  mari- 
time pines  alternating  with  rows  of  cypress.  There, 
towards  Toussaint,  after  the  autumnal  rains,  you  may 
find  an  abundance  of  the  mushrooms  or  "  toadstools  " 
that  affect  the  conifers  ;  especially  the  delicious  Lactaris, 
which  turns  green  if  the  points  are  rubbed  and  drips 
blood  if  broken.  In  the  warm  days  of  autumn  this  is 
the  favourite  promenade  of   the  members  of  my   house- 
224    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE    INSECT  WORLD 
hold,  being  distant  enough  to  exercise  their  young 
legs,  but  near  enough  not  to  fatigue  them. 
There  one  finds  and  sees  all  manner  of  things  : 
old  magpies'  nests,  great  bundles  of  twigs ;  jays, 
wrangling  after  filling  their  crops  with  the  acorns 
of  the  neighbouring  oaks ;  rabbits,  whose  little  white 
upturned  scuts  go  bobbing  away  through  the  rose- 
mary bushes ;  dung-beetles,  which  are  storing  food 
for  the  winter  and  throwing  up  their  rubbish  on  the 
threshold  of  their  burrows.  And  then  the  fine  sand, 
soft  to  the  touch,  easily  tunnelled,  easily  excavated  or 
built  into  tiny  huts  which  we  thatch  with  moss  and 
surmount  with  the  end  of  a  reed  for  a  chimney  ;  and 
the  delicious  meal  of  apples,  and  the  sound  of  the  aeolian 
harps  which  softly  whisper  among  the  boughs  of  the 
pines  I 
For  the  children  it  is  a  real  paradise,  where  they 
can  receive  the  reward  of  well-learned  lessons.  The 
grown-ups  also  can  share  in  the  enjoyment.  As  for 
myself,  for  long  years  I  have  watched  two  insects 
which  are  found  there  without  getting  to  the  bottom 
of  their  domestic  secrets.  One  is  the  Minotaurus 
iyphcBus,  whose  male  carries  on  his  corselet  three 
spines  which  point  forward.  The  old  writers  called 
him  the  Phalangist,  on  account  of  his  armour,  which 
is  comparable  to  the  three  ranks  of  lances  of  the 
Macedonian  phalanx. 
This  is  a  robust  creature,  heedless  of  the  winter. 
All  during  the  cold  season,  whenever  the  weather 
relents  a  little,  it  issues  discreetly  from  its  lodging,  at 
nightfall,  and  gathers,  in  the  immediate  neighbourhood 
of   its   dwelling,  a    few   fragments   of   sheep-dung   and 
A  TRUFFLE-HUNTER  225 
ancient  olives  which  the  summer  suns  have  dried.  It 
stacks  them  in  a  row  at  the  end  of  its  burrow,  closes 
the  door,  and  consumes  them.  When  the  food  is 
broken  up  and  exhausted  of  its  meagre  juices  it  returns 
to  the  surface  and  renews  its  store.  Thus  the  winter 
passes,  famine  being  unknown  unless  the  weather  is 
exceptionally  hard. 
The  second  insect  which  I  have  observed  for  so 
long  among  the  pines  is  the  Bolboceras.  Its  burrows, 
scattered  here  and  there,  higgledy-piggledy  with  those 
of  the  Minotaur,  are  easy  to  recognise.  The  burrow 
of  the  Phalangist  is  surmounted  by  a  voluminous 
rubbish-dump,  the  materials  of  which  are  piled  in  the 
form  of  a  cylinder  as  long  as  the  finger.  Each  of 
these  dumps  is  a  load  of  refuse  and  rubbish  pushed 
outward  by  the  little  sapper,  which  shoulders  it  up 
from  below.  The  orifice  is  closed  whenever  the  insect 
is  at  home,  enlarging  its  tunnel  or  peacefully  enjoying 
the  contents  of  its  larder. 
The  lodging  of  the  Bolboceras  is  open  and  surrounded 
simply  by  a  mound  of  sand.  Its  depth  is  not  great  ; 
a  foot  or  hardly  more.  It  descends  vertically  in  an 
easily  shifted  soil.  It  is  therefore  easy  to  inspect  it, 
if  we  take  care  first  of  all  to  dig  a  trench  so  that  the 
wall  of  the  burrow  may  be  afterwards  cut  away,  slice 
by  slice,  with  the  blade  of  a  knife.  The  burrow  is 
thus  laid  bare  along  its  whole  extent,  from  the  surface 
to  the  bottom,  until  nothing  remains  of  it  but  a 
demi-cylindrical  groove. 
Often  the  violated  dwelling  is  empty.  The  insect 
has  departed  in  the  night,  having  finished  its  business 
there.     It  is  a  nomad,  a  night-walker,  which  leaves  its 
226     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
dwelling  without  regret  and  easily  acquires  another. 
Often,  on  the  other  hand,  the  insect  will  be  found  at 
the  bottom  of  the  burrow ;  sometimes  a  male,  some- 
times a  female,  but  always  alone.  The  two  sexes, 
equally  zealous  in  excavating  their  burrows,  work 
apart  without  collaboration.  This  is  no  family  mansion 
for  the  rearing  of  offspring ;  it  is  a  temporary  dwelling, 
made  by  each  insect  for  its  own  benefit. 
Sometimes  the  burrow  contains  nothing  but  the 
well-sinker  surprised  at  its  work  :  sometimes — and  not 
rarely — the  hermit  will  be  found  embracing  a  small 
subterranean  fungus,  entire  or  partly  consumed.  It 
presses  it  convulsively  to  its  bosom  and  will  not  be 
parted  from  it.  This  is  the  insect's  booty  :  its  worldly 
wealth.  Scattered  crumbs  inform  us  that  we  have 
surprised  the  beetle  at  a  feast. 
Let  us  deprive  the  insect  of  its  booty.  We  find  a 
sort  of  irregular,  rugged,  purse-like  object,  varying  in 
size  from  the  largeness  of  a  pea  to  that  of  a  cherry. 
The  exterior  is  reddish,  covered  with  fine  warts, 
having  an  appearance  not  unlike  shagreen  ;  the  interior, 
which  has  no  communication  with  the  exterior,  is 
smooth  and  white.  The  pores,  ovoidal  and  diaphanous, 
are  contained,  in  groups  of  eight,  m  long  capsules. 
From  these  characteristics  we  recognise  an  under- 
ground cryptogam,  known  to  the  botanists  as  Hydno- 
cystis  arenariUf  and  a  relation  of  the  truffle. 
This  discovery  begins  to  throw  a  light  on  the  habits 
of  the  Bolboceras  and  the  cause  of  its  burrows,  so 
frequently  renewed.  In  the  calm  of  the  twilight  the 
little  truffle-hunter  goes  abroad,  chirping  softly  to 
encourage  itself.     It  explores  the  soil,  and  interrogates 
A  TRUFFLE-HUNTER  227 
it  as  to  its  contents,  exactly  as  does  the  truffle-gatherer's 
dog.  The  sense  of  smell  warns  it  that  the  desired 
object  is  beneath  it,  covered  by  a  few  inches  of  sand. 
Certain  of  the  precise  point  where  the  treasure  lies, 
it  sinks  a  well  vertically  downwards,  and  infallibly 
reaches  it.  So  long  as  there  is  food  left  it  does  not 
again  leave  the  burrow.  It  feasts  happily  at  the 
bottom  of  its  well,  heedless  of  the  open  or  imperfectly 
closed  burrow. 
When  no  more  food  is  left  it  removes  in  search  of 
further  booty,  which  becomes  the  occasion  of  another 
burrow,  this  too  in  its  turn  to  be  abandoned.  So 
many  truffles  eaten  necessitate  so  many  burrows,  which 
are  mere  dining-rooms  or  pilgrim's  larders.  Thus 
pass  the  autumn  and  the  spring,  the  seasons  of  the 
Hydnocystis,  in  the  pleasures  of  the  table  and  removal 
from  one  house  to  another. 
To  study  the  insect  rabassier  in  my  own  house  I 
had  to  obtain  a  small  store  of  its  favourite  food.  To 
seek  it  myself,  by  digging  at  random,  would  have  resulted 
merely  in  waste  of  time  ;  the  little  cryptogam  is  not 
so  common  that  I  could  hope  to  find  it  without  a 
guide.  The  truffle-hunter  must  have  his  dog ;  my 
guide  should  be  the  Bolboceras  itself.  Behold  me, 
then,  a  rabassier  of  a  kind  hitherto  unknown.  I  have 
told  my  secret,  although  I  fear  my  original  teacher 
will  laugh  at  me  if  he  ever  hears  of  my  singular  form 
of  competition. 
The  subterranean  fungi  grow  only  at  certain  points, 
but  they  are  often  found  in  groups.  Now,  the  beetle 
has  passed  this  way  ;  with  its  subtle  sense  of  smell 
it  has    recognised    the    ground    as   favourable ;  for   it* 
228     SOCIAL  LIFE    IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
burrows  are  numerous.  Let  us  dig,  then,  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  these  holes.  The  sign  is  reUable  ; 
in  a  few  hours,  thanks  to  the  signs  of  the  Bolboceras, 
I  obtain  a  handful  of  specimens  of  the  Hydnocystis. 
It  is  the  first  time  I  have  ever  found  this  fungus  in 
the  ground.  Let  us  now  capture  the  inSect — an  easy 
matter,  for  we  have  only  to  excavate  the  burrows. 
The  same  evening  I  begin  my  experiments.  A  wide 
earthen  pan  is  filled  with  fresh  sand  which  has  been 
passed  through  a  sieve.  With  the  aid  of  a  stick  the 
thickness  of  a  finger  I  make  six  vertical  holes  in  the 
sand  :  they  are  conveniently  far  apart,  and  are  eight 
inches  m  depth.  A  Hydnocystis  is  placed  at  the  bottom 
of  each  ;  a  fine  straw  is  then  inserted,  to  show  me  the 
precise  position  later.  Finally  the  six  holes  are  filled 
with  sand  which  is  beaten  down  so  thr.t  all  is  firm. 
When  the  surface  is  perfectly  level,  and  everywhere  the 
same,  except  for  the  six  straws,  which  mean  nothing  to 
the  insect,  I  release  my  beetles,  covering  them  with  a 
wire-gauze  cover.     They  are  eight  in  number. 
At  first  I  see  nothing  but  the  inevitable  fatigue  due 
to  the  incidents  of  exhumation,  transport,  and  confine- 
ment in  a  strange  place.  My  exiles  try  to  escape  :  they 
climb  the  wire  walls,  and  finally  all  take  to  earth  at  the 
edge  of  their  enclosure.  Night  comes,  and  all  is  quiet. 
Two  hours  later  I  pay  my  prisoners  a  last  visit.  Three 
are  still  buried  under  a  thin  layer  of  sand.  The  other 
five  have  sunk  each  a  vertical  well  at  the  very  foot 
of  the  straws  which  indicate  the  position  of  the  buried 
fungi.  Next  morning  the  sixth  straw  has  its  burrow 
like  the  rest.  ^ 
It   is   time  to  see   what   is  happening   underground. 
A  TKUFFLE-HUNTER  229 
The  sand  is  methodically  removed  in  vertical  slices 
At  the  bottom  of  each  burrow  is  a  Bolboceras  engaged 
in  eating  its  truffle. 
Let  us  repeat  the  experiment  with  the  partly  eaten 
fungi.  The  result  is  the  same.  In  one  short  night  the 
food  is  divined  under  its  covering  of  sand  and  attained 
by  means  of  a  burrow  which  descends  as  straight  as  a 
plumb-line  to  the  point  where  the  fungus  lies.  There 
has  been  no  hesitation,  no  trial  excavations  which  have 
nearly  discovered  the  object  of  search.  This  is  proved 
by  the  surface  of  the  soil,  which  is  everywhere  just  as 
I  left  it  when  smoothing  it  down.  The  insect  could 
not  make  more  directly  for  the  objective  if  guided  by 
the  sense  of  sight ;  it  digs  always  at  the  foot  of  the 
straw,  my  private  sign.  The  trulfle-dog,  sniffing  the 
ground  in  search  of  truffles,  hardly  attains  this  degree 
of  precision. 
Does   the   Hydnocystis    possess    a    very   keen    odour, 
such    as   we   should    expect    to    give   an    unmistakable 
warning  to  the  senses  of  the  consumer  ?     By  no  means. 
To  our  own  sense  of  smell  it  is  a  neutral  sort  of  object, 
with    no   appreciable   scent   whatever.     A    little    pebble 
taken  from   the   soil  would   affect   our   senses  quite   as 
strongly   with    its   vague   savour   of   fresh    earth.     As   a 
finder  of  underground  fungi  the  Bolboceras  is  the  rival 
of  the  dog.     It  would  be  the  superior  of  the  dog  if  it 
could    generalise  ;    it    is,    however,    a    rigid    specialist, 
recognising   nothing    but    the    Hydnocystis.      No    other 
fungus,  to   my  knowledge,  either  attracts  it   or  induces 
it  to  dig.» 
'  Since  these  lines  were  written  I  have  found  it  consuming  om 
of  the  true  tuberaceae,  the  Tuber  Requenii,  TuL,  of  the  size  oi  a 
cherry. 
230     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
Both  dog  and  beetle  are  very  near  the  subsoil  which 
they  scrutinise  ;  the  object  they  seek  is  at  no  great 
depth.  At  a  greater  depth  neither  dog  nor  insect  could 
perceive  such  subtle  effluvia,  nor  even  the  odour  of 
the  truffle.  To  attract  insect  or  animal  at  a  great  dis- 
tance powerful  odours  are  necessary,  such  as  our 
grosser  senses  can  perceive.  Then  the  exploiters  of  the 
odorous  substance  hasten  from  afar  off  and  from  all 
directions. 
If  for  purposes  of  study  I  require  specimens  of  such 
insects  as  dissect  dead  bodies  I  expose  a  dead  mole 
to  the  sunlight  in  a  distant  corner  of  my  orchard.  As 
soon  as  the  creature  is  swollen  with  the  gases  of  putrefac- 
tion, and  the  fur  commences  to  fall  from  the  greenish 
skin,  a  host  of  insects  arrive — Silphidae,  Dermestes, 
Horn-beetles,  and  Necrophori — of  which  not  a  single 
specimen  could  ever  be  obtained  in  my  garden  or  even 
in  the  neighbourhood  without  the  use  of  such  a  bait. 
They  have  been  warned  by  the  sense  of  smell, 
although  far  away  in  all  directions,  while  I  myself  can 
escape  from  the  stench  by  recoiling  a  few  paces.  In 
comparison  with  their  sense  of  smell  mine  is  miserable ; 
but  in  this  case,  both  for  me  and  for  them,  there  is 
really  what  our  language  calls  an  odour. 
I  can  do  still  better  with  the  flower  of  the  Serpent 
Arum  {Arum  dracunculus),  so  noteworthy  both  for  its 
form  and  its  incomparable  stench.  Imagine  a  wide 
lanceolated  blade  of  a  vinous  purple,  some  twenty  inches 
in  length,  which  is  twisted  at  the  base  into  an  ovoid 
purse  about  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg.  Through  the 
opening  of  this  capsule  rises  the  central  column,  a  long 
club  of  a  livid  green,  surrounded  at  the  base  by  two 
A  TRUFFLE-HUNTER  231 
rings,  one  of  ovaries  and  the  other  of  stamens.  Such, 
briefly,  is  the  flower  or  rather  the  inflorescence  of  the 
Serpent  Arum. 
For  two  days  it  exhales  a  horrible  stench  of  putrid 
flesh  ;  a  dead  dog  could  not  produce  such  a  terrible 
odour.  Set  free  by  the  sun  and  the  wind,  it  is  odious, 
intolerable.  Let  us  brave  the  infected  atmosphere  and 
approach  ;  we  shall  witness  a  curious  spectacle. 
Warned  by  the  stench,  which  travels  far  and  wide,  a 
host  of  insects  are  flying  hither ;  such  insects  as  dissect 
the  corpses  of  frogs,  adders,  lizards,  hedgehogs,  moles 
and  field-mice — creatures  that  the  peasant  finds  beneath 
his  spade  and  throws  disembowelled  on  the  path.  They 
fall  upon  the  great  leaf,  whose  livid  purple  gives  it  the 
appearance  of  a  strip  of  putrid  flesh  ;  they  dance  with 
impatience,  intoxicated  by  the  corpse-like  odour  which 
to  them  is  so  delicious ;  they  roll  down  its  steep  face 
and  are  engulfed  in  the  capsule.  After  a  few  hours  of 
hot  sunlight  the  receptacle  is  full. 
Let  us  look  into  the  capsule  through  the  narrow 
opening.  Nowhere  else  could  you  see  such  a  mob  of 
insects.  It  is  a  delirious  mixture  of  backs  and  bellies, 
wing-covers  and  legs,  which  swarms  and  rolls  upon 
itself,  rising  and  falling,  seething  and  boiling,  shaken 
by  continual  convulsions,  clicking  and  squeaking  with 
a  sound  of  entangled  articulations.  It  is  a  bacchanal, 
a  general  access  of  delirium  tremens. 
A  few,  but  only  a  few,  emerge  from  the  mass.  By 
the  central  mast  or  the  walls  of  the  purse  they  climb 
to  the  opening.  Do  they  wish  to  take  flight  and 
escape  ?  By  no  means.  On  the  threshold  of  the 
cavity,  while  already  almost  at  liberty,  they  allow  them- 
232     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
selves  to  fall  into  the  whirlpool,  retaken  by  their  mad- 
ness. The  lure  is  irresistible.  None  will  break  free 
from  the  swarm  until  the  evening,  or  perhaps  the  next 
day,  when  the  heady  fumes  will  have  evaporated.  Then 
the  units  of  the  swarm  disengage  themselves  from  their 
mutual  embraces,  and  slowly,  as  though  regretfully, 
take  flight  and  depart.  At  the  bottom  of  this  devil's 
purse  remains  a  heap  of  the  dead  and  dying,  of  severed 
limbs  and  wing-covers  torn  off ;  the  inevitable  sequels 
of  the  frantic  orgy.  Soon  the  woodlice,  earwigs,  and 
ants  will  appear  to  prey  upon  the  injured. 
What  are  these  insects  doing  ?  Were  they  the 
prisoners  of  the  flower,  converted  into  a  trap  which 
allowed  them  to  enter  but  prevented  their  escape  by 
means  of  a  palisade  of  converging  hairs  ?  No,  they 
were  not  prisoners  ;  they  had  full  liberty  to  escape,  as 
is  proved  by  the  final  exodus,  which  is  in  no  way 
impeded.  Deceived  by  a  fallacious  odour,  were  they 
endeavouring  to  lay  and  establish  their  eggs  as  they 
would  have  done  under  the  shelter  of  a  corpse  ? 
No  ;  there  is  no  trace  of  eggs  in  the  purse  of  the 
Arum.  They  came  convoked  by  the  odour  of  a  decay- 
ing body,  their  supreme  delight ;  an  intoxication  seized 
them,  and  they  rushed  into  the  eddying  swarm  to  take 
part  in  a  festival  of  carrion-eaters. 
I  was  anxious  to  count  the  number  of  those  attracted. 
At  the  height  of  the  bacchanal  I  emptied  the  purse 
into  a  bottle.  Intoxicated  as  they  were,  many  would 
escape  my  census,  and  I  wished  to  ensure  its  accuracy. 
A  few  drops  of  carbon  bisulphide  quieted  the  swarm. 
The  census  proved  that  there  were  more  than  four 
lumdred  insects  in  the  purse  of  the  Arum.    The  collec- 
A  TRUFFLE-HUNTER  233 
tion  consisted  entirely  of  two  species — Dermestes  and 
Saprinidae  —  both  eager  prospectors  of  carrion  and 
animal  detritus  during  the  spring. 
My  friend  Bull,  an  honest  dog  all  his  lifetime  if  ever 
there  was  one,  amongst  other  eccentricities  had  the  fol- 
lowing :  finding  in  the  dust  of  the  road  the  shrivelled 
body  of  a  mole,  flattened  by  the  feet  of  pedestrians, 
mummified  by  the  heat  of  the  sun,  he  would  slide 
himself  over  it,  from  the  tip  of  his  nose  to  the  root 
of  his  tail,  he  would  rub  himself  against  it  deliciously 
over  and  over  again,  shaken  with  nervous  spasms,  and 
roll  upon  it  first  in  one  direction,  then   in  the  other. 
It  was  his  sachet  of  musk,  his  flask  of  eau-de-Cologne. 
Perfumed  to  his  liking,  he  would  rise,  shake  himself, 
and  proceed  on  his  way,  delighted  with  his  toilet.  Do 
not  let  us  scold  him,  and  above  all  do  not  let  us  dis- 
cuss the  matter.  There  are  all  kinds  of  tastes  in  a 
world. 
Why  should  there  not  be  insects  with  similar  habits 
among  the  amateurs  of  corpse-like  savours  ?  We  see 
Dermestes  and  Saprinidae  hastening  to  the  arum-flower. 
All  day  long  they  writhe  and  wriggle  in  a  swarm, 
although  perfectly  free  to  escape  ;  numbers  perish  in 
the  tumultuous  orgy.  They  are  not  retained  by  the 
desire  of  food,  for  the  arum  provides  them  with  nothing 
eatable  ;  they  do  not  come  to  breed,  for  they  take  care 
not  to  establish  their  grubs  in  that  place  of  famine. 
What  are  these  frenzied  creatures  doing  ?  Apparently 
they  are  intoxicated  with  fetidity,  as  was  Bull  when  he 
rolled  on  the  putrid  body  of  a  mole. 
This  intoxication  draws  them  from  all  parts  of  the 
neighbourhood,   perhaps    over    considerable    distances ; 
234     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WOULD 
how  far  we  do  not  know.  The  Necrophori,  in  quest 
of  a  place  where  to  establish  their  family,  travel  great 
distances  to  find  the  corpses  of  small  animals,  informed 
by  such  odours  as  offend  our  own  senses  at  a  con- 
siderable distance. 
The  Hydnocystis,  the  food  of  the  Bolboceras,  emits 
no  such  brutal  emanations  as  these,  which  readily  diffuse 
themselves  through  space ;  it  is  inodorous,  at  least  to 
our  senses.  The  insect  which  seeks  it  does  not  come 
from  a  distance ;  it  inhabits  the  places  wherein  the 
cryptogam  is  found.  Faint  as  are  the  effluvia  of  this 
subterranean  fungus,  the  prospecting  epicure,  being 
specially  equipped,  perceives  them  with  the  greatest 
ease ;  but  then  he  operates  at  close  range,  from  the 
surface  of  the  soil.  The  truffle-dog  is  in  the  same 
case ;  he  searches  with  his  nose  to  the  ground.  The 
true  truffle,  however,  the  essential  object  of  his  search, 
possesses  a  fairly  vivid  odour. 
But  what  are  we  to  say  of  the  Great  Peacock  moth 
and  the  Oak  Eggar,  both  of  which  find  their  captive 
female  ?  They  come  from  the  confines  of  the  horizon. 
What  do  they  perceive  at  that  distance  ?  Is  it  really  an 
odour  such  as  we  perceive  and  understand  ?  I  cannot 
bring  myself  to  believe  it. 
The  dog  finds  the  truffle  by  smelling  the  earth  quite 
close  to  the  tuber  ;  but  he  finds  his  master  at  great 
distances  by  following  his  footsteps,  which  he  recognises 
by  their  scent.  Yet  can  he  find  the  truffle  at  a  hundred 
yards  ?  or  his  master,  in  the  complete  absence  of  a  trail  ? 
No.  With  all  his  fineness  of  scent,  the  dog  is  incapable 
of  such  feats  as  are  realised  by  the  moth,  which  is  em- 
barrassed neither  by  distance  nor  the  absence  of  a  trail. 
A  TRUFFLE-HUNTF.K  235 
It  is  admitted  that  odour,  such  as  affects  our  olfactory 
sense,  consists  of  molecules  emanating  from  the  body 
whose  odour  is  perceived.  The  odorous  material  be- 
comes diffused  through  the  air  to  which  it  communicates 
its  agreeable  or  disagreeable  aroma.  Odour  and  taste  are 
to  a  certain  extent  the  same  ;  in  both  there  is  contact 
between  the  material  particles  causing  the  impression 
and  the  sensitive  papillae  affected  by  the  impression. 
That  the  Serpent  Arum  should  elaborate  a  powerful 
essence  which  impregnates  the  atmosphere  and  makes 
it  noisome  is  perfectly  simple  and  comprehensible.  Thus 
the  Dermestes  and  Saprinidae,  those  lovers  of  corpse-like 
odours,  are  warned  by  molecular  diffusion.  In  the  same 
way  the  putrid  frog  emits  and  disseminates  around  it 
atoms  of  putrescence  which  travel  to  a  considerable 
distance  and  so  attract  and  delight  the  Necrophorus, 
the  carrion-beetle. 
But  in  the  case  of  the  Great  Peacock  or  the  Oak 
Eggar,  what  molecules  are  actually  disengaged  ?  None, 
according  to  our  sense  of  smell.  And  yet  this  lure,  to 
which  the  males  hasten  so  speedily,  must  saturate  with 
its  molecules  an  enormous  hemisphere  of  air — a  hemi- 
sphere some  miles  in  diameter  !  What  the  atrocious 
fetor  of  the  Arum  cannot  do  the  absence  of  odour 
accomplishes  !  However  divisible  matter  may  be,  the 
mind  refuses  such  conclusions.  It  would  be  to  redden 
a  lake  with  a  grain  of  carmine  ;  to  fill  space  with  a  mere 
nothing. 
Moreover,  where  my  laboratory  was  previously  saturated 
with  powerful  odours  which  should  have  overcome  and 
annihilated  any  particularly  delicate  effluvium,  the  male 
moths  arrived  without  the  least  indication  of  confusion 
or  delay. 
236     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
A  loud  noise  stifles  a  feeble  note  and  prevents  it  from 
being  heard ;  a  brilliant  light  eclipses  a  feeble  glimmer. 
Heavy  waves  overcome  and  obliterate  ripples.  In  the 
two  cases  cited  we  have  waves  of  the  same  nature.  But 
a  clap  of  thunder  does  not  diminish  the  feeblest  jet  of 
light;  the  dazzling  glory  of  the  sun  will  not  muffle  the 
slightest  sound.  Of  different  natures,  light  and  sound  do 
not  mutually  interact. 
My  experiment  with  spike-lavender,  naphthaline,  and 
other  odours  seems  to  prove  that  odour  proceeds  from 
two  sources.  For  emission  substitute  undulation,  and 
the  problem  of  the  Great  Peacock  moth  is  explained. 
Without  any  material  emanation  a  luminous  point  shakes 
the  ether  with  its  vibrations  and  fills  with  light  a  sphere 
of  indefinite  magnitude.  So,  or  in  some  such  manner, 
must  the  warning  effluvium  of  the  mother  Oak  Eggar 
operate.  The  moth  does  not  emit  molecules ;  but  some- 
thing about  it  vibrates,  causing  waves  capable  of  propa- 
gation to  distances  incompatible  with  an  actual  diffusion 
of  matter. 
From  this  point  of  view,  smell  would  have  two 
domains — that  of  particles  dissolved  in  the  air  and  that 
of  etheric  waves.^    The  former  domain  alone  is  known 
'  The  difficulty  in  conceiving  this  theory  lies  in  the  fact  that  the 
waves  travel  in  straight  lines.  On  the  other  hand,  matter  in  a  state 
of  degradation  may  expel  particles  highly  energised  and  of  enormous 
velocity.  Most  antennae  arc  covered  with  hairs  of  inconceivable 
fineness ;  others  may  contain  cavities  of  almost  infinite  minuteness. 
Is  it  not  thinkable  that  they  are  able  to  detect,  in  the  gaseous 
atmosphere,  floating  particles  that  are  not  gaseous  ?  This  would  not 
prevent  the  specialisation  of  antenna?  as  mere  feelers  in  some  insects 
and  crustaceans.  The  difficulty  of  such  a  supposition  lies  in  the 
fact  of  discrimination ;  but  if  we  did  not  possess  a  sense  of  taste 
or  smell  discrimination  would  seem  inconceivable  in  their  cas^ 
also.— [Trans. 
A  TRUFFLE-HUNTER  237 
to  us.  It  is  also  known  to  the  insect.  It  is  this  that 
warns  the  Saprinidae  of  the  fetid  arum,  the  Silphidae  and 
the  Necrophori  of  the  putrid  mole. 
The  second  category  of  odour,  far  superior  in  its 
action  through  space,  escapes  us  completely,  because 
we  lack  the  essential  sensory  equipment.  The  Great 
Peacock  moth  and  the  Oak  Eggar  know  it  at  the  time 
of  their  nuptial  festivities.  Many  others  must  share  it  in 
differing  degrees,  according  to  the  exigencies  of  their 
way  of  life. 
Like  light,  odour  has  its  X-rays.  Let  science,  instructed 
by  the  insect,  one  day  give  us  a  radiograph  sensitive  to 
odours,  and  this  artificial  nose  will  open  a  new  world 
of  marvels. 