CHAPTER   II 
THE  CIGALE   LEAVES   ITS  BURROW 
The  first  Cigales  appear  about  the  summer  solstice. 
Along  the  beaten  paths,  calcined  by  the  sun,  hardened 
by  the  passage  of  frequent  feet,  we  see  little  circular 
orifices  almost  large  enough  to  admit  the  thumb.  These 
are  the  holes  by  which  the  larvae  of  the  Cigale  have  come 
up  from  the  depths  to  undergo  metamorphosis.  We  see 
them  more  or  less  everywhere,  except  in  fields  where  the 
soil  has  been  disturbed  by  ploughing.  Their  usual  posi- 
tion is  in  the  driest  and  hottest  situations,  especially  by 
the  sides  of  roads  or  the  borders  of  footpaths.  Powerfully 
equipped  for  the  purpose,  able  at  need  to  pierce  the  turf 
or  sun-dried  clay,  the  larva,  upon  leaving  the  earth,  seems 
to  prefer  the  hardest  spots. 
A  garden  alley,  converted  into  a  little  Arabia  Petraea 
by  reflection  from  a  wall  facing  the  south,  abounds  in 
such  holes.  During  the  last  days  of  June  I  have  made 
an  examination  of  these  recently  abandoned  pits.  The 
soil  is  so  compact  that  I  needed  a  pick  to  tackle  it. 
The  orifices  are  round,  and  close  upon  an  inch  in 
diameter.  There  is  absolutely  no  debris  round  them  ; 
no  earth  thrown  up  from  within.  This  is  always  the 
case ;  the  holes  of  the  Cigales  are  never  surrounded  by 
3  n 
18    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
dumping-heaps,  as  are  the  burrows  of  the  Geotrupes, 
another  notable  excavator.  The  way  in  which  the  work 
IS  done  is  responsible  for  this  difference.  The  dung- 
beetle  works  from  without  inwards  ;  she  begins  to  dig  at 
the  mouth  of  the  burrow,  and  afterwards  re-ascends  and 
accumulates  the  excavated  material  on  the  surface.  The 
larva  of  the  Cigale,  on  the  contrary,  works  outward  from 
within,  upward  from  below;  it  opens  the  door  of  exit  at 
the  last  moment,  so  that  it  is  not  free  for  the  discharge 
of  excavated  material  until  the  work  is  done.  The  first 
enters  and  raises  a  little  rubbish-heap  at  the  threshold 
of  her  burrow ;  the  second  emerges,  and  cannot,  while 
working,  pile  up  its  rubbish  on  a  threshold  which  as 
yet  has  no  existence. 
The  burrow  of  the  Cigale  descends  about  fifteen  inches. 
It  is  cylindrical,  slightly  twisted,  according  to  the  exi- 
gencies of  the  soil,  and  always  approaches  the  vertical, 
or  the  direction  of  the  shortest  passage.  It  is  perfectly 
free  along  its  entire  length.  We  shall  search  in  vain  for 
the  rubbish  which  such  an  excavation  must  apparently 
produce  ;  we  shall  find  nothing  of  the  sort.  The  burrow 
terminates  in  a  cul-de-sac,  in  a  fairly  roomy  chamber 
with  unbroken  walls,  which  shows  not  the  least  vestige 
of  communication  with  any  other  burrow  or  prolongation 
of  the  shaft. 
Taking  its  length  and  diameter  into  account,  we  find 
the  excavation  has  a  total  volume  of  about  twelve  cubic 
inches.     What  becomes  of  the  earth  which  is  removed  ? 
Sunk  in  a  very  dry,  crumbling  soil,  we  should  expect 
the  shaft  and  the  chamber  at  the  bottom  to  have  soft, 
powdery  walls,  subject  to  petty  landslips,  if  no  work 
were  done  but  that  of  excavation^    On  the  contrary,  the 
THE   CIGALE   LEAVES  ITS  BURKOW      10 
walls  are  neatly  daubed,  plastered  with  a  sort  of  clay-like 
mortar.     They  are  not  precisely  smooth,  indeed  they  are 
distinctly  rough ;   but  their  irregularities  are  covered  with 
a  layer  of  plaster,  and  the  crumbling  material,  soaked  in 
some  glutmous  liquid  and  dried,  is  held  firmly  in  place. 
The  larva  can  climb  up  and  down,  ascend  nearly  to 
the  surface,  and  go  down   into   its  chamber  of  refuge, 
without  bringing  down,  with    his   claws,  the   continual 
falls  of  material  which  would  block  the  burrow,  make 
ascent  a  matter  of  difficulty,  and  retreat  impossible.    The 
miner  shores  up  his  galleries  with  uprights  and  cross- 
timbers  ;  the  builder  of  underground  railways  supports 
the  sides  and  roofs  of  his  tunnels  with  a  lining  of  brick 
or  masonry  or  segments  of  iron  tube  ;   the  larva  of  the 
Cigale,  no  less  prudent  an  engineer,  plasters  the  walls  of 
its  burrow  with   cement,  so  that  the  passage  is  always 
free  and  ready  for  use. 
If  I  surprise  the  creature  just  as  it  is  emerging  from  the 
soil  in  order  to  gain  a  neighbouring  bough  and  there 
undergo  transformation,  I  see  it  immediately  make  a 
prudent  retreat,  descending  to  the  bottom  of  its  burrow 
without  the  slightest  difficulty-a  proof  that  even  when 
about  to  be  abandoned  for  ever  the  refuge  is  not  encum- 
bered with  rubbish. 
The  ascending  shaft  is  not  a  hurried  piece  of  work, 
scamped  by  a  creature  impatient  to  reach  the  sunlight' 
It  is  a  true  dwelling,  in  which  the  larva  may  make  a 
long  stay.  The  plastered  walls  betray  as  much.  Such 
precautions  would  be  useless  in  the  case  of  a  simple 
exit  abandoned  a?  soon  as  made.  We  cannot  doubt  that 
the  burrow  is  a  kind  of  meteorological  observatory,  and 
Uiat  Its  mhabitant  takes  note  of   the  weather  without 
20    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
Buried  underground  at  a  depth  of  twelve  or  fifteen  inches, 
the  larva,  when  ripe  for  escape,  could  hardly  judge 
whether  the  meteorological  conditions  were  favourable. 
The  subterranean  climate  varies  too  little,  changes  too 
slowly,  and  would  not  afford  it  the  precise  information 
required  for  the  most  important  action  of  its  life — the 
escape  into  the  sunshme  at  the  time  of  metamorphosis. 
Patiently,  for  weeks,  perhaps  for  months,  it  digs,  clears, 
and  strengthens  a  vertical  shaft,  leaving  only  a  layer  of 
earth  a  finger's  breadth  in  thickness  to  isolate  it  from  the 
outer  world.  At  the  bottom  it  prepares  a  carefully  built 
recess.  This  is  its  refuge,  its  place  of  waiting,  where  it 
reposes  in  peace  if  its  observations  decide  it  to  postpone 
its  final  departure.  At  the  least  sign  of  fine  weather  it 
climbs  to  the  top  of  its  burrow,  sounds  the  outer  v/orld 
through  the  thin  layer  of  earth  which  covers  the  shaft, 
and  informs  itself  of  the  temperature  and  humidity  of  the 
outer  air. 
If  things  are  not  going  well — if  there  are  threats  of  a 
flood  or  the  dreaded  bise — events  of  mortal  gravity  when 
the  delicate  insect  issues  from  its  cerements — the  prudent 
creature  re-descends  to  the  bottom  of  its  burrow  for  a 
longer  wait.  If,  on  the  contrary,  the  state  of  the  atmo- 
sphere is  favourable,  the  roof  is  broken  through  by  a 
few  strokes  of  its  claws,  and  the  larva  emerges  from  its 
tunnel. 
Everything  seems  to  prove  that  the  burrow  of  the 
Cigale  is  a  waiting-room,  a  meteorological  station,  in 
which  the  larva  makes  a  prolonged  stay ;  sometimes 
hoisting  itself  to  the  neighbourhood  of  the  surface  in 
order  to  ascertain  the  external  climate ;  sometimes  re- 
liring   to   the   depths  the   better  to   shelter  itself.    This 
THE   CIGALB  LEAVES  ITS  BURROW      21 
explains  the  chamber  at  the  base  of  the  shaft,  and  the 
necessity  of  a  cement  to  hold  the  walls  together,  for 
otherwise  the  creature's  continual  comings  and  goings 
would  result  in  a  landslip. 
A  matter  less  easy  of  explanation  is  the  complete  dis- 
appearance of  the  material  which  originally  filled  the 
excavated  space.  Where  are  the  twelve  cubic  inches  of 
earth  that  represent  the  average  volume  of  the  original 
contents  of  the  shaft?  There  is  not  a  trace  of  this 
material  outside,  nor  inside  either.  And  how,  in  a  soil 
as  dry  as  a  cinder,  is  the  plaster  made  with  which  the 
walls  are  covered  ? 
Larvae  which  burrow  in  wood,  such  as  those  of 
Capricornis  and  Buprestes,  will  apparently  answer  our 
first  question.  They  make  their  way  through  the 
substance  of  a  tree-trunk,  boring  their  galleries  by  the 
simple  method  of  eating  the  material  in  front  of  them. 
Detached  by  their  mandibles,  fragment  by  fragment,  the 
material  is  digested.  It  passes  from  end  to  end  through 
the  body  of  the  pioneer,  yields  during  its  passage  its 
meagre  nutritive  principles,  and  accumulates  behind  it, 
obstructing  the  passage,  by  which  the  larva  will  never 
return.  The  work  of  extreme  division,  effected  partly 
by  the  mandibles  and  partly  by  the  stomach,  makes 
the  digested  material  more  compact  than  the  intact 
wood,  from  which  it  follows  that  there  is  always  a  little 
free  space  at  the  head  of  the  gallery,  in  which  the  cater- 
pillar works  and  lives  ;  it  is  not  of  any  great  length,  but 
just  suffices  for  the  movements  of  the  prisoner. 
Must  not  the  larva  of  the  Cigale  bore  its  passage  in 
some  such  fashion  ?  I  do  not  mean  that  the  results  of 
excavation  pass  through  its   body — for  earth,  even  the 
22    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
softest  mould,  could  form  no  possible  part  of  its  diet. 
But  is  not  the  material  detached  simply  thrust  back 
behind  the  excavator  as  the  work  progresses  ? 
The  Cigale  passes  four  years  under  ground.  This  long 
life  is  not  spent,  of  course,  at  the  bottom  of  the  well  I 
have  just  described  ;  that  is  merely  a  resting-place 
preparatory  to  its  appearance  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 
The  larva  comes  from  elsewhere ;  doubtless  from  a 
considerable  distance.  It  is  a  vagabond,  roaming  from 
one  root  to  another  and  implanting  its  rostrum.  When 
it  moves,  either  to  flee  from  the  upper  layers  of  the 
soil,  which  in  winter  become  too  cold,  or  to  install  itself 
upon  a  more  juicy  root,  it  makes  a  road  by  rejecting 
behind  it  the  material  broken  up  by  the  teeth  of  its  picks. 
That  this  is  its  method  is  incontestable. 
As  with  the  larvae  of  Capricornis  and  Buprestes,  it  is 
enough  for  the  traveller  to  have  around  it  the  small 
amount  of  free  space  necessitated  by  its  movements. 
Moist,  soft,  and  easily  compressible  soil  is  to  the  larva  of 
the  Cigale  what  digested  wood-pulp  is  to  the  others.  It 
is  compressed  without  difficulty,  and  so  leaves  a  vacant 
space. 
The  difficulty  is  that  sometimes  the  burrow  of  exit 
from  the  waiting-place  is  driven  through  a  very  arid  soil, 
which  is  extremely  refractory  to  compression  so  long  as 
it  retains  its  aridity.  That  the  larva,  when  commencing 
the  excavation  of  its  burrow,  has  already  thrust  part  of 
the  detached  material  into  a  previously  made  gallery,  now 
filled  up  and  disappeared,  is  probable  enough,  although 
nothing  in  the  actual  condition  of  things  goes  to  support 
the  theory ;  but  if  we  consider  the  capacity  of  the  shaft 
and  the  extreme  difficulty  of  making  room  for  such  a 
THE  CIGALB  LEAVES  ITS  BURROW      23 
volume  of  debris,  we  feel  dubious  once  more  ;  for  to 
hide  such  a  quantity  of  earth  a  considerable  empty  space 
would  be  necessary,  which  could  only  be  obtained  by  the 
disposal  of  more  debris.  Thus  we  are  caught  in  a 
vicious  circle.  The  mere  packing  of  the  powdered  earth 
rejected  behind  the  excavator  would  not  account  for  so 
large  a  void.  The  Cigale  must  have  a  special  method 
of  disposing  of  the  waste  earth.  Let  us  see  if  we  can 
discover  the  secret. 
Let  us  examine  a  larva  at  the  moment  of  emerging 
from  the  soil.  It  is  almost  always  more  or  less  smeared 
with  mud,  sometimes  dried,  sometimes  moist.  The 
implements  of  excavation,  the  claws  of  the  fore-feet,  have 
their  points  covered  by  little  globules  of  mortar  ;  the 
others  bear  leggings  of  mud  ;  the  back  is  spotted  with 
clay.  One  is  reminded  of  a  scavenger  who  has  been 
scooping  up  mud  all  day.  This  condition  is  the  more 
striking  in  that  the  insect  comes  from  an  absolutely  dry 
soil.   We  should  expect  to  see  it  dusty  ;  we  find  it  muddy. 
One  more  step,  and  the  problem  of  the  well  is  solved. 
I  exhume  a  larva  which  is  working  at  its  gallery  of  exit. 
Chance  postpones  this  piece  of  luck,  which  I  cannot 
expect  to  achieve  at  once,  since  nothing  on  the  surface 
guides  my  search.  But  at  last  I  am  rewarded,  and  the 
larva  is  just  beginning  its  excavation.  An  inch  of  tunnel, 
free  of  all  waste  or  rubbish,  and  at  the  bottom  the 
chamber,  the  place  of  rest ;  so  far  has  the  work  pro- 
ceeded. And  the  worker — in  what  condition  is  it  ?  Let 
us  see. 
The  larva  is  much  paler  in  colour  than  those  which 
I  have  caught  as  they  emerged.  The  large  eyes  in 
particular  are    whitish,  cloudy,  blurred,  and    apparently 
24    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
blind.  What  would  be  the  use  of  sight  underground  ? 
The  eyes  of  the  larvae  leaving  their  burrows  are  black 
and  shining,  and  evidently  capable  of  sight.  When  it 
issues  into  the  sunlight  the  future  Cigale  must  find,  often 
at  some  distance  from  its  burrow,  a  suitable  twig  from 
which  to  hang  during  its  metamorphosis,  so  that  sight 
is  obviously  of  the  greatest  utility.  The  maturity  of  the 
eyes,  attained  during  the  tiine  of  preparation  before 
deliverance,  proves  that  tliQ  larva,  far  from  boring  its 
tunnel  in  haste,  has  spent  a  long  time  labouring  at  it. 
What  else  do  we  notice  ?  The  blind,  pale  larva  is  far 
more  voluminous  than  in  the  mature  state  ;  it  is  swollen 
with  liquid  as  though  it  had  dropsy.  Taken  in  the 
fingers,  a  limpid  serum  oozes  from  the  hinder  part  of 
the  body,  which  moistens  the  whole  surface.  Is  this  fluid, 
evacuated  by  the  intestine,  a  product  of  urinary  secretion 
— simply  the  contents  of  a  stomach  nourished  entirely 
upon  sap  ?  I  will  not  attempt  to  decide,  but  for 
convenience  will  content  myself  with  calling  it  urine. 
Well,  this  fountain  of  urine  is  the  key  to  the  enigma. 
As  it  digs  and  advances  the  larva  waters  the  powdery 
debris  and  converts  it  into  a  paste,  which  is  immediately 
.ipplied  to  the  walls  by  the  pressure  of  the  abdomen. 
Aridity  is  followed  by  plasticity.  The  mud  thus  obtained 
penetrates  the  interstices  of  the  rough  soil ;  the  more 
liquid  portion  enters  the  substance  of  the  soil  by 
infiltration  ;  the  remainder  becomes  tightly  packed  and 
fills  up  the  inequalities  of  the  walls.  Thus  the  insect 
obtains  an  empty  tunnel,  with  no  loose  waste,  as  all  the 
loosened  soil  is  utilised  on  the  spot,  converted  into  a 
mortar  which  is  more  compact  and  homogeneous  than 
the  soil  through  which  the  shaft  is  driven. 
THE   CIGALE  LEAVES  ITS  BURROW      25 
Thus  the  larva  works  in  the  midst  of  a  coating  of  mud, 
which  is  the  cause  of  its  dirtiness,  so  astonishing  when 
we  see  it  issue  from  an  excessively  dry  soil  The  perfect 
insect,  although  henceforth  liberated  from  the  work  of 
a  sapper  and  miner,  does  not  entirely  abandon  the  use 
of  urine  as  a  weapon,  employing  it  as  a  means  of  defence. 
Too  closely  observed  it  throws  a  [et  of  liquid  upon  the 
importunate  enemy  and  flies  away.  In  both  its  forms 
the  Cigale,  in  spite  of  its  dry  temperament,  is  a  famous 
irrigator. 
Dropsical  as  it  is,  the  larva  cannot  contain  sufficient 
liquid  to  moisten  and  convert  into  easily  compressible 
mud  the  long  column  of  earth  which  must  be  removed 
from  the  burrow.  The  reservoir  becomes  exhausted,  and 
the  provision  must  be  renewed.  Where,  and  how  ?  I 
think  I  can  answer  the  question. 
The  few  burrows  uncovered  along  their  entirety,  with 
the  meticulous  care  such  a  task  demands,  have  revealed 
at  the  bottom,  encrusted  in  the  wall  of  the  terminal 
chamber,  a  hving  root,  sometimes  of  the  thickness  of 
a  pencil,  sometimes  no  bigger  than  a  straw.  The  visible 
portion  of  this  root  is  only  a  fraction  of  an  inch  in 
length ;  the  rest  is  hidden  by  the  surrounding  earth. 
Is  the  presence  of  this  source  of  sap  fortuitous  ?  Or 
is  it  the  result  of  deliberate  choice  on  the  part  of  the 
larva  ?  I  incline  towards  the  second  alternative,  so 
repeatedly  was  the  presence  of  a  root  verified,  at  least 
when  my  search  was  skilfully  conducted. 
Yes,  the  Cigale,  digging  its  chamber,  the  nucleus  of 
the  future  shaft,  seeks  out  the  immediate  neighbourhood 
of  a  small  living  root ;  it  lays  bare  a  certain  portion, 
which  forms  i>art  of  the  wall^  without  projecting.     This 
26    SOCIAL   LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
living  spot  in  the  wall  is  the  fountain  where  the  supply 
of  moisture  is  renewed.  When  its  reservoir  is  exhausted 
by  the  conversion  of  dry  dust  into  mud  the  miner 
descends  to  its  chamber,  thrusts  its  proboscis  into  the 
root,  and  drinks  deep  from  the  vat  built  into  the  wall. 
Its  organs  well  filled,  it  re-ascends.  It  resumes  work, 
damping  the  hard  soil  the  better  to  remove  it  with  its 
talons,  reducing  the  debris  to  mud,  in  order  to  pack 
it  tightly  around  it  and  obtain  a  free  passage.  In  this 
manner  the  shaft  is  driven  upwards  ;  logic  and  the  facts 
of  the  case,  in  the  absence  of  direct  observation,  justify 
the  assertion. 
If  the  root  were  to  fail,  and  the  reservoir  of  the 
intestine  were  exhausted,  what  would  happen  ?  The 
following  experiment  will  inform  us  :  a  larva  is  caught  as 
it  leaves  the  earth.  I  place  it  at  the  bottom  of  a  test-tube, 
and  cover  it  with  a  column  of  dry  earth,  which  is  rather 
lightly  packed.  This  column  is  about  six  inches  in 
height.  The  larva  has  just  left  an  excavation  three  times 
as  deep,  made  in  soil  of  the  same  kind,  but  offering  a 
far  greater  resistance.  Buried  under  this  short  column 
of  powdery  earth,  will  it  be  able  to  gain  the  surface  ? 
If  its  strength  hold  out  the  issue  should  be  certain  ; 
having  but  lately  made  its  way  through  the  hard  earth, 
this  obstacle  should  be  easily  removed. 
But  I  am  not  so  sure.  In  removing  the  stopper  which 
divided  it  from  the  outside  world,  the  larva  has  expended 
its  final  store  of  liquid.  The  cistern  is  dry,  and  in 
default  of  a  living  root  there  is  no  means  of  replenishing 
it.  My  suspicions  are  well  founded.  For  three  days  the 
prisoner  struggles  desperately,  but  cannot  ascend  by  so 
much  as  an  inch.     It  is  impossible  to  fix  the  material 
THE   CIGALE   LEAVES  ITS   BURROW      27 
removed  in  the  absence  of  moisture ;  as  soon  as  it  is 
thrust  aside  it  slips  back  again.  The  labour  has  no 
visible  result ;  it  is  a  labour  of  Sisyphus,  always  to  be 
commenced  anew.  On  the  fourth  day  the  creature 
succumbs. 
With  the  intestines  full  the  result  is  very  different. 
I  make  the  same  experiment  with  an  insect  which  is 
only  beginning  its  work  of  liberation.  It  is  swollen  with 
fluid,  which  oozes  from  it  and  moistens  the  whole  body. 
Its  task  is  easy  ;  the  overlying  earth  offers  little  resistance. 
A  small  quantity  of  liquid  from  the  intestines  converts 
it  into  mud ;  forms  a  sticky  paste  which  can  be  thrust 
aside  with  the  assurance  that  it  will  remain  where  it  is 
placed.  The  shaft  is  gradually  opened  ;  very  unevenly,  to 
be  sure,  and  it  is  almost  choked  up  behind  the  insect  as 
it  climbs  upwards.  It  seems  as  though  the  creature 
recognises  the  impossibility  of  renewing  its  store  of 
liquid,  and  so  economises  the  little  it  possesses,  using 
only  just  so  much  as  is  necessary  in  order  to  escape 
as  quickly  as  possible  from  surroundings  which  are 
strange  to  its  inherited  instincts.  This  parsimony  is  so 
well  judged  that  the  insect  gains  the  surface  at  the  end 
of  twelve  days. 
The  gate  of  issue  is  opened  and  left  gaping,  like  a  hole 
made  with  an  augur.  For  some  little  time  the  larva 
wanders  about  the  neighbourhood  of  its  burrow,  seeking 
an  eyrie  on  some  low-growing  bush  or  tuft  of  thyme,  on 
a  stem  of  grass  or  grain,  or  the  twig  of  a  shrub.  Once 
found,  it  climbs  and  firmly  clasps  its  support,  the  head 
upwards,  while  the  talons  of  the  fore  feet  close  with  an 
unyielding  grip.  The  other  claws,  if  the  direction  of  the 
twig  is  convenient,  assist  in  supporting  it ;  otherwise  the 
28    SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
claws  of  the  two  fore  legs  will  suffice.  There  follows  a 
moment  of  repose,  while  the  supporting  limbs  stiffen  in 
an  unbreakable  hold.  Then  the  thorax  splits  along  the 
back,  and  through  the  fissure  the  insect  slowly  emerges. 
The  whole  process  lasts  perhaps  half  an  hour. 
There  is  the  adult  insect,  freed  of  its  mask,  and  how 
different  from  what  it  was  but  now  !  The  wings  are 
heavy,  moist,  transparent,  with  nervures  of  a  tender 
green.  The  thorax  is  barely  clouded  with  brown.  All 
the  rest  of  the  body  is  a  pale  green,  whitish  in  places. 
Heat  and  a  prolonged  air-bath  are  necessary  to  harden 
and  colour  the  fragile  creature.  Some  two  hours  pass 
without  any  perceptible  change.  Hanging  to  its  deserted 
shell  by  the  two  fore  limbs,  the  Cigale  sways  to  the  least 
breath  of  air,  still  feeble  and  still  green.  Finally,  the 
brown  colour  appears  and  rapidly  covers  the  whole  body; 
the  change  of  colour  is  completed  in  half  an  hour. 
Fastening  upon  its  chosen  twig  at  nine  o'clock  in  the 
morning,  the  Cigale  flies  away  under  my  eyes  at  half-past 
twelve. 
The  empty  shell  remains,  intact  except  for  the  fissure 
in  the  back  ;  clasping  the  twig  so  firmly  that  the  winds  of 
autumn  do  not  always  succeed  in  detaching  it.  For 
some  months  yet  and  even  during  the  winter  you  will 
often  find  these  forsaken  skins  hanging  from  the  twigs  in 
the  precise  attitude  assumed  by  the  larva  at  the  moment 
of  metamorphosis.  They  are  of  a  horny  texture,  not 
unlike  dry  parchment,  and  do  not  readily  decay. 
I  could  gather  some  wonderful  information  regarding 
the  Cigale  were  I  to  listen  to  all  that  my  neighbours,  the 
peasants,  tell  me.  I  will  give  one  instance  of  rustic 
natural  history. 
THt    CIGALE    AND     IHI      i:\iriV    I'UI'A-SKIN'. 
THE  CIGALE  LEAVES  ITS  BURROW      29 
Are  you  afflicted  with  any  kidney  trouble,  or  are  you 
swollen  with  dropsy,  or  have  you  need  of  some  powerful 
diuretic  ?  The  village  pharmacopoeia  is  unanimous  in 
recommending  the  Cigale  as  a  sovereign  remedy.  The 
insects  in  the  adult  form  are  collected  in  summer.  They 
are  strung  into  necklaces  which  are  dried  in  the  sun  and 
carefully  preserved  in  some  cupboard  or  drawer.  A  good 
housewife  would  consider  it  imprudent  to  allow  July 
to  pass  without  threading  a  few  of  these  insects. 
Do  you  suffer  from  any  nephritic  irritation  or  from 
stricture  ?     Drink  an  infusion  of  Cigales.     Nothing,  they 
say,  is  more  effectual.     I  must  take  this  opportunity  of 
thanking  the  good  soul  who  once  upon  a  time,  so  I  was 
afterwards  informed,  made  me  drink  such  a  concoction 
unawares  for  the  cure  of  some  such  trouble ;  but  I  still 
remain  incredulous.     I  have  been  greatly  struck  by  the 
fact  that  the  ancient   physician   of   Anazarbus   used   to 
recommend   the   same   remedy.      Dioscorides  tells   us : 
CicadcEy    quae    inassatae    manduntur,    vesicae    doloribus 
prosunt.     Since    the   distant    days   of    this   patriarch    of 
materia  medica  the   Provengal  peasant  has  retained  his 
faith  in  the  remedy  revealed  to  him  by  the  Greeks,  who 
came  from  Phocaea  with  the  olive,  the  fig,  and  the  vine. 
Only  one  thing  is  changed  :  Dioscorides  advises  us  to 
eat  the  Cigales  roasted,  but  now  they  are  boiled,  and  the 
decoction  is  administered  as  medicine.     The  explanation 
which  is  given  of  the  diuretic  properties  of  the  insect  is 
a  marvel  of   ingenuousness.     The  Cigale,   as  every  one 
knows  who  has  tried  to  catch  it,  throws  a  jet  of  Uquid 
excrement  in  one's  face  as  it  flies  away.     It   therefore 
endows  us  with  its  faculties  of  evacuation.     Thus  Dios- 
corides and  his  contemporaries  must  have  reasoned  ;  so 
reasons  the  peasant  of  Provence  to-day. 
30    SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
What  would  you  say,  worthy  neighbours,  if  you  knew 
of  the  virtues  of  the  larva,  which  is  able  to  mix  sufficient 
mortar  with  its  urine  to  build  a  meteorological  station 
and  a  shaft  connecting  with  the  outer  world  ?  Your 
powers  should  equal  those  of  Rabelais'  Gargantua,  who, 
seated  upon  the  towers  of  Notre  Dame,  drowned  so  many 
thousands  of  the  inquisitive  Parisians. 