CHAPTER   XVIII 
THE   PEA-WEEVIL — BRUCHUS  PlSt 
Peas  are  held  in  high  esteem  by  mankind.  From 
remote  ages  man  has  endeavoured,  by  careful  culture, 
to  produce  larger,  tenderer,  and  sweeter  varieties.  Of  an 
adaptable  character,  under  careful  treatment  the  plant  has 
evolved  in  a  docile  fashion,  and  has  ended  by  giving  us 
what  the  ambition  of  the  gardener  desired.  To-day  we 
have  gone  far  beyond  the  yield  of  the  Varrons  and 
Columelles,  and  further  still  beyond  the  original  pea  ; 
from  the  wild  seeds  confided  to  the  soil  by  the  first  man 
who  thought  to  scratch  up  the  surface  of  the  earth, 
perhaps  with  the  half-jaw  of  a  cave-bear,  whose  powerful 
canine  tooth  would  serve  him  as  a  ploughshare  ! 
Where  is  it,  this  original  pea,  in  the  world  of  spon- 
taneous vegetation  ?  Our  own  country  has  nothing 
resembling  it.  Is  it  to  be  found  elsewhere  ?  On  this 
point  botany  is  silent,  or  replies  only  with  vague  proba- 
bilities. 
We  find  the  same  ignorance  elsewhere  on  the  subject 
of  the  majority  of  our  alimentary  vegetables.  Whence 
comes  wheat,  the  blessed  grain  which  gives  us  bread  ? 
No  one  knows.  You  will  not  find  it  here,  except  in  the 
care  of  man  j  nor  will  you  find  it  abroad.     In  the  East, 
THE   PEA- WEEVIL  259 
the  birthplace  of  agriculture,  no  botanist  has  ever  en- 
countered the  sacred  ear  growing  of  itself  on  unbroken 
soil. 
Barley,  oats,  and  rye,  the  turnip  and  the  beet,  the 
beetroot,  the  carrot,  the  pumpkin,  and  so  many  other 
vegetable  products,  leave  us  in  the  same  perplexity ;  their 
point  of  departure  is  unknown  to  us,  or  at  most  suspected 
behind  the  impenetrable  cloud  of  the  centuries.  Nature 
delivered  them  to  us  in  the  full  vigour  of  the  thing 
untamed,  when  their  value  as  food  was  indifferent,  as 
to-day  she  offers  us  the  sloe,  the  bullace,  the  blackberry, 
the  crab  ;  she  gave  them  to  us  in  the  state  of  imperfect 
sketches,  for  us  to  fill  out  and  complete  ;  it  was  for  our 
skill  and  our  labour  patiently  to  induce  the  nourishing 
pulp  which  was  the  earliest  form  of  capital,  whose 
interest  is  always  increasing  in  the  primordial  bank  of 
the  tiller  of  the  soil. 
As  storehouses  of  food  the  cereal  and  the  vegetable 
are,  for  the  greater  part,  the  work  of  man.  The  funda- 
mental species,  a  poor  resource  in  their  original  state,  we 
borrowed  as  they  were  from  the  natural  treasury  of  the 
vegetable  world ;  the  perfected  race,  rich  in  alimentary 
materials,  is  the  result  of  our  art. 
If  wheat,  peas,  and  all  the  rest  are  indispensable  to  us, 
our  care,  by  a  just  return,  is  absolutely  necessary  to  them. 
Such  as  our  needs  have  made  them,  incapable  of  resist- 
ance in  the  bitter  struggle  for  survival,  these  vegetables, 
left  to  themselves  without  culture,  would  rapidly  disappear, 
despite  the  numerical  abundance  of  their  seeds,  as  the 
foolish  sheep  would  disappear  were  there  no  more  sheep- 
folds. 
They   are   our    work,   but    not   always   our   exclusive 
260     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
property.  Wherever  food  is  amassed,  the  consumers 
collect  from  the  four  corners  of  the  sky ;  they  invite 
themselves  to  the  feast  of  abundance,  and  the  richer  the 
food  the  greater  their  numbers.  Man,  who  alone  is 
capable  of  inducing  agrarian  abundance,  is  by  that 
very  fact  the  giver  of  an  immense  banquet  at  which 
legions  of  feasters  take  their  place.  By  creating  more 
juicy  and  more  generous  fruits  he  calls  to  his  enclosures, 
despite  himself,  thousands  and  thousands  of  hungry 
creatures,  against  whose  appetites  his  prohibitions  are 
helpless.  The  more  he  produces,  the  larger  is  the  tribute 
demanded  of  him.  Wholesale  agriculture  and  vegetable 
abundance  favour  our  rival  the  insect. 
This  is  the  immanent  law.  Nature,  with  an  equal  zeal, 
offers  her  mighty  breast  to  all  her  nurslings  alike  ;  to 
those  who  live  by  the  goods  of  others  no  less  than  to  the 
producers.  For  us,  who  plough,  sow,  and  reap,  and 
weary  ourselves  with  labour,  she  ripens  the  wheat ;  she 
ripens  it  also  for  the  little  Calender-beetle,  which, 
although  exempted  from  the  labour  of  the  fields,  enters 
our  granaries  none  the  less,  and  there,  with  its  pointed 
beak,  nibbles  our  wheat,  grain  by  grain,  to  the  husk. 
For  us,  who  dig,  weed,  and  water,  bent  with  fatigue 
and  burned  by  the  sun,  she  swells  the  pods  of  the  pea ; 
she  swells  them  also  for  the  weevil,  which  does  no 
gardener's  work,  yet  takes  its  share  of  the  harvest  at  its 
own  hour,  when  the  earth  is  joyful  with  the  new  life 
of  spring. 
Let  us  follow  the  manoeuvres  of  this  insect  which 
takes  its  tithe  of  the  green  pea.  I,  a  benevolent  rate- 
payer, will  allow  it  to  take  its  dues ;  it  is  precisely  to 
benefit  it  that  I  have  sown  a  few  rows  of  the  beloved 
THE  PEA-WEEVIL  261 
plant  in  a  corner  of  ray  garden.  Without  other  in- 
vitation on  my  part  than  this  modest  expenditure  of 
seed-peas  it  arrives  punctually  during  the  month  of  May. 
It  has  learned  that  this  stony  soil,  rebellious  to  the  cul- 
ture of  the  kitchen-gardener,  is  bearing  peas  for  the  first 
time.  In  all  haste  therefore  it  has  hurried,  an  agent  of  the 
entomological  revenue  system,  to  demand  its  dues. 
Whence  does  it  come  ?  It  is  impossible  to  say  pre- 
cisely. It  has  come  from  some  shelter,  somewhere,  in 
which  it  has  passed  the  winter  in  a  state  of  torpor.  The 
plane-tree,  which  sheds  its  rind  during  the  heats  of  the 
summer,  furnishes  an  excellent  refuge  for  homeless 
insects  under  its  partly  detached  sheets  of  bark. 
I  have  often  found  our  weevil  in  such  a  winter  refuge. 
Sheltered  under  the  dead  covering  of  the  plane,  or  other- 
wise protected  while  the  winter  lasts,  it  awakens  from  its 
torpor  at  the  first  touch  of  a  kindly  sun.  The  almanack 
of  the  instincts  has  aroused  it ;  it  knows  as  well  as  the 
gardener  when  the  pea-vines  are  in  flower,  and  seeks 
its  favourite  plant,  journeying  thither  from  every  side, 
running  with  quick,  short  steps,  or  nimbly  flying. 
A  small  head,  a  fine  snout,  a  costume  of  ashen  grey 
sprinkled  with  brown,  flattened  wing-covers,  a  dumpy, 
compact  body,  with  two  large  black  dots  on  the  rear 
segment — such  is  the  summary  portrait  of  my  visitor. 
The  middle  of  May  approaches,  and  with  it  the  van 
of  the  invasion. 
They  settle  on  the  flowers,  which  are  not  unlike  white- 
winged  butterflies.  I  see  them  at  the  base  of  the  blossom 
or  inside  the  cavity  of  the  "  keel  "  of  the  flower,  but  the 
majority  explore  the  petals  and  take  possession  of  them. 
The  time  for  laying  the  eggs  has  not  yet  arrived.     The 
262     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
morning  is  mild ;  the  sun  is  warm  without  being 
oppressive.  It  is  the  moment  of  nuptial  flights  ;  the 
time  of  rejoicing  in  the  splendour  of  the  sunshine. 
Everywhere  are  creatures  rejoicing  to  be  alive.  Couples 
come  together,  part,  and  re-form.  When  towards  noon 
ihe  heat  becomes  too  great,  the  weevils  retire  into  the 
shadow,  taking  refuge  singly  in  the  folds  of  the  flowers 
whose  secret  corners  they  know  so  well.  To-morrow 
will  be  another  day  of  festival,  and  the  next  day  also, 
until  the  pods,  emerging  from  the  shelter  of  the  "  keel  " 
of  the  flower,  are  plainly  visible,  enlarging  from  day  to 
day. 
A  few  gravid  females,  more  pressed  for  time  than  the 
others,  confide  their  eggs  to  the  growing  pod,  flat  and 
meagre  as  it  issues  from  its  floral  sheath.  These  hastily 
laid  batches  of  eggs,  expelled  perhaps  by  the  exigencies 
of  an  ovary  incapable  of  further  delay,  seem  to  me  in 
serious  danger  ;  for  the  seed  in  which  the  grub  must 
establish  itself  is  as  yet  no  more  than  a  tender  speck  of 
green,  without  firmness  and  without  any  farinaceous 
tissue.  No  larva  could  possible  find  sufficient  nourish- 
ment there,  unless  it  waited  for  the  pea  to  mature. 
But  is  the  grub  capable  of  fasting  for  any  length  of 
time  when  once  hatched  ?  It  is  doubtful.  The  little  I 
have  seen  tells  me  that  the  new-born  grub  must  establish 
itself  in  the  midst  of  its  food  as  quickly  as  possible,  and 
that  it  perishes  unless  it  can  do  so.  I  am  therefore  of 
opinion  that  such  eggs  as  are  deposited  in  immature 
pods  are  lost.  However,  the  race  will  hardly  suffer  by 
such  a  loss,  so  fertile  is  the  little  beetle.  We  shall  see 
directly  how  prodigal  the  female  is  of  her  eggs,  the 
majority  of  which  are  destined  to  perish. 
THE  PEA- WEEVIL  263 
The  important  part  of  the  maternal  task  is  completed 
by  the  end  of  May,  when  the  shells  are  swollen  by  the 
expancing  peas,  which  have  reached  their  final  growth, 
or  are  but  little  short  of  it.  I  was  anxious  to  see  the 
female  Bruchus  at  work  in  her  quality  of  Curculionid,  as 
our  classification  declares  her.^  The  other  weevils  are 
Rhyncoohora,  beaked  insects,  armed  with  a  drill  with 
which  t)  prepare  the  hole  in  which  the  egg  is  laid.  The 
Bruchuj  possesses  only  a  short  snout  or  muzzle,  excel- 
lently acapted  for  eating  soft  tissues,  but  valueless  as  a 
drill. 
The  method  of  installing  the  family  is  consequently 
absolutely  different.  There  are  no  industrious  prepara- 
tions as  with  the  Balinidae,  the  Larinidae,  and  the 
Rh/nchitides.  Not  being  equipped  with  a  long  ovi- 
sccpt,  the  mother  sows  her  eggs  in  the  open,  with  no 
protection  against  the  heat  of  the  sun  and  the  variations 
of  temperature.  Nothing  could  be  simpler,  and  nothing 
more  perilous  to  the  eggs,  in  the  absence  of  special 
characteristics  which  would  enable  them  to  resist  the 
aliernate  trials  of  heat  and  cold,  moisture  and  drought. 
In  the  caressing  sunlight  of  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning 
thi  mother  runs  up  and  down  the  chosen  pod,  first  on 
oie  side,  then  on  the  other,  with  a  jerky,  capricious, 
uimethodical  gait.  She  repeatedly  extrudes  a  short 
o/iduct,  which  oscillates  right  and  left  as  though  to 
g-aze  the  skin  of  the  pod.  An  eggs  follows,  which  is 
jbandoned  as  soon  as  laid. 
'  This  classification  is  now  superseded;  the  Pea  and  Bean 
Weevils — Bruchus  pisi  and  Bruchus  lenii — are  classed  as  Bruchidae, 
in  the  series  of  Phytophaga.  Most  of  the  other  weevils  are  classed 
as  Curculionidae,  series  Rhyncophora. — [Trans.] 
264     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
A  hasty  touch  of  the  oviduct,  first  here,  then  the-e,  on 
the  green  skin  of  the  pea-pod,  and  that  is  all.  The  egg  is 
left  there,  unprotected,  in  the  full  sunlight.  No  choice 
of  position  is  made  such  as  might  assist  the  grub  vhen  it 
seeks  to  penetrate  its  larder.  Some  eggs  are  laid  on  the 
swellings  created  by  the  peas  beneath  ;  others  in  the 
barren  valleys  which  separate  them.  The  first  a.e  close 
to  the  peas,  the  second  at  some  distance  fron  them. 
In  short,  the  eggs  of  the  Bruchus  are  laid  at  random,  a^ 
Uiough  on  the  wing. 
We  observe  a  still  more  serious  vice  :  the  nunber  of 
eggs  is  out  of  all  proportion  to  the  number  of  peas  in  the 
pod.  Let  us  note  at  the  outset  that  each  grub  requires 
one  pea ;  it  is  the  necessary  ration,  and  is  largely  sufficient 
to  one  larva,  but  is  not  enough  for  several,  nor  even  ^or 
two.  One  pea  to  each  grub,  neither  more  nor  less,  is  he 
unchangeable  rule. 
We  should  expect  to  find  signs  of  a  procreati^e 
economy  which  would  impel  the  female  to  take  ino 
account  the  number  of  peas  contained  in  the  pod  which 
she  has  just  explored  ;  we  might  expect  her  to  set  a 
numerical  limit  on  her  eggs  in  conformity  with  that  )f 
the  peas  available.  But  no  such  limit  is  observed.  Tte 
rule  of  one  pea  to  one  grub  is  always  contradicted  by  the 
multiplicity  of  consumers. 
My  observations  are  unanimous  on  this  point.  Th; 
number  of  eggs  deposited  on  one  pod  always  exceed: 
the  number  of  peas  available,  and  often  to  a  scandalous 
degree.  However  meagre  the  contents  of  the  pod  there 
is  a  superabundance  of  consumers.  Dividing  the  sum 
of  the  eggs  upon  such  or  such  a  pod  by  that  of  the  peas 
contained  therein,  I  find  there  are  five  to  eight  claimants 
I 
THE  PEA- WEEVIL  265 
for  each  pea ;  I  have  found  ten,  and  there  is  no  reason 
why  this  prodigality  should  not  go  still  further.  Many 
are  called,  but  few  are  chosen  !  What  is  to  become  of 
all  these  supernumeraries,  perforce  excluded  from  the 
banquet  for  want  of  space  ? 
The  eggs  are  of  a  fairly  bright  amber  yellow,  cylin- 
drical in  form,  smooth,  and  rounded  at  the  ends.  Their 
length  is  at  most  a  twenty-fifth  'of  an  inch.  Each  is 
affixed  to  the  pod  by  means  of  a  slight  network  of 
threads  of  coagulated  albumen.  Neither  wind  nor  rain 
can  loosen  their  hold. 
The  mother  not  infrequently  emits  them  two  at  a  time, 
one  above  the  other  ;  not  infrequently,  also,  the  upper- 
most of  the  two  eggs  hatches  before  the  other,  while  the 
latter  fades  and  perishes.  What  was  lacking  to  this  egg, 
that  it  should  fail  to  produce  a  grub  ?  Perhaps  a  bath  of 
sunlight ;  the  incubating  heat  of  which  the  outer  egg  has 
robbed  it.  Whether  on  account  of  the  fact  that  it  is 
shadowed  by  the  other  egg,  or  for  other  reasons,  the 
elder  of  the  eggs  in  a  group  of  two  rarely  follows  the 
normal  course,  but  perishes  on  the  pod,  dead  without 
having  lived. 
There  are  exceptions  to  this  premature  end  ;  some- 
times the  two  eggs  develop  equally  well  ;  but  such  cases 
are  exceptional,  so  that  the  Bruchid  family  would  be 
reduced  to  about  half  its  dimensions  if  the  binary 
system  were  the  rule.  To  the  detriment  of  our  peas  and 
to  the  advantage  of  the  beetle,  the  eggs  are  commonly 
laid  one  by  one  and  in  isolation. 
A  recent  emergence  is  shown  by  a  little  sinuous  ribbon- 
like mark,  pale  or  whitish,  where  the  skin  of  the  pod  is 
raised  and  withered,  which  starts  from  the  egg  and  is 
266     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
the  work  of  the  new-born  larva  ;  a  sub-epidermic  tunnel 
along  which  the  grub  works  its  way,  while  seeking  a 
point  from  which  it  can  escape  into  a  pea.  This  point 
once  attained,  the  larva,  which  is  scarcely  a  twenty-fifth 
of  an  inch  in  length,  and  is  white  with  a  black  head, 
perforates  the  envelope  and  plunges  into  the  capacious 
hollow  of  the  pod. 
It  has  reached  the  peas  and  crawls  upon  the  nearest. 
I  have  observed  it  with  the  magnifier.  Having  explored 
the  green  globe,  its  new  world,  it  begins  to  sink  a  well 
perpendicularly  into  the  sphere.  1  have  often  seen  it 
half-way  in,  wriggling  its  tail  in  the  effort  to  work  the 
quicker.  In  a  short  time  the  grub  disappears  and  is  it 
home.  The  point  of  entry,  minute,  but  always  easiW 
recognisable  by  its  brown  coloration  on  the  pale  green 
background  of  the  pea,  has  no  fixed  location  ;  it  may  be 
at  almost  any  point  on  the  surface  of  the  pea,  but  an 
exception  is  usually  made  of  the  lower  half  ;  that  is,  the 
hemisphere  whose  pole  is  formed  by  the  supporting 
stem. 
It  is  precisely  in  this  portion  that  the  germ  is  found, 
which  will  not  be  eaten  by  the  larva,  and  will  remain 
capable  of  developing  into  a  plant,  in  spite  of  the  large 
aperture  made  by  the  emergence  of  the  adult  insect. 
Why  is  this  particular  portion  left  untouched  ?  What 
are  the  motives  that  safeguard  the  germ  ? 
It  goes  without  saying  that  the  Bruchus  is  not  con- 
sidering the  gardener.  The  pea  is  meant  for  it  and  for 
no  one  else.  In  refusing  the  few  bites  that  would  lead  to 
the  death  of  the  seed,  it  has  no  intention  of  limiting  its 
destruction.     It  abstains  from  other  motives. 
Let  us  remark  that  the  peas  touch  laterally,  and  are 
THE  PEA-WEEVU  267 
pressed  one  against  the  other,  so  that  the  grub,  when 
searching  for  a  point  of  attack,  cannot  circulate  at  will. 
Let  us  also  note  that  the  lower  pole  expands  into  the 
umbilical  excrescence,  which  is  less  easy  of  perforation 
than  those  parts  protected  by  the  skin  alone.  It  is  even 
possible  that  the  umbilicum,  whose  organisation  differs 
from  that  of  the  rest  of  the  pea,  contains  a  peculiar  sap 
that  is  distasteful  to  the  little  grub. 
Such,  doubtless,  is  the  reason  why  the  peas  exploited 
by  the  Bruchus  are  still  able  to  germinate.  They  are 
damaged,  but  not  dead,  because  the  invasion  was 
conducted  from  the  free  hemisphere,  a  portion  less 
vulnerable  and  more  easy  of  access.  Moreover,  as  the 
pea  in  its  entirety  is  too  large  for  a  single  grub  to 
consume,  the  consumption  is  limited  to  the  portion 
preferred  by  the  consumer,  and  this  portion  is  not  the 
essential  portion  of  the  pea. 
With  other  conditions,  with  very  much  smaller  or 
very  much  larger  seeds,  we  shall  observe  very  different 
results.  If  too  small,  the  germ  will  perish,  gnawed  like 
the  rest  by  the  insufficiently  provisioned  inmate  ;  if  too 
large,  the  abundance  of  food  will  permit  of  several 
inmates.  Exploited  in  the  absence  of  the  pea,  the 
cultivated  vetch  and  the  broad  bean  afford  us  an 
excellent  example  ;  the  smaller  seed,  of  which  all  but 
the  skin  is  devoured,  is  left  incapable  of  germination  ; 
but  the  large  bean,  even  though  it  may  have  held  a 
number  of  grubs,  is  still  capable  of  sprouting. 
Knowing  that  the  pod  always  exhibits  a  number  of 
eggs  greatly  in  excess  of  the  enclosed  peas,  and  that 
each  pea  is  the  exclusive  property  of  one  grub,  we 
naturally   ask  what  becomes  of  the   superfluous  grubs. 
208     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
Do  they  perish  outside  when  the  more  precocious  have 
one  by  one  taken  their  places  in  their  vegetable  larder  ? 
or  do  they  succumb  to  the  intolerant  teeth  of  the  first 
occupants  ?  Neither  explanation  is  correct.  Let  us 
relate  the  facts. 
On  all  old  peas — they  are  at  this  stage  dry — from 
which  the  adult  Bruchus  has  emerged,  leaving  a  large 
round  hole  of  exit,  the  magnifying-glass  will  show  a 
variable  number  of  fine  reddish  punctuations,  perforated 
in  the  centre.  What  are  these  spots,  of  which  I  count 
five,  six,  and  even  more  on  a  smgle  pea  ?  It  is 
impossible  to  be  mistaken  :  they  are  the  points  of 
entry  of  as  many  grubs.  Several  grubs  have  entered  the 
pea,  but  of  the  whole  group  only  one  has  survived, 
fattened,  and  attained  the  adult  age.  And  the  others  ? 
We  shall  see. 
At  the  end  of  May,  and  in  June,  the  period  of  egg- 
laying,  let  us  inspect  the  still  green  and  tender  peas. 
Nearly  all  the  peas  invaded  show  us  the  multiple 
perforations  already  observed  on  the  dry  peas  abandoned 
by  the  weevils.  Does  this  actually  mean  that  there  are 
several  grubs  in  the  pea  ?  Yes.  Skin  the  peas  in 
question,  separate  the  cotyledons,  and  break  them  up 
as  may  be  necessary.  We  shall  discover  several  grubs, 
extremely  youthful,  curled  up  comma-wise,  fat  and 
lively,  each  in  a  little  round  niche  in  the  body  of  the 
pea. 
Peace  and  welfare  seem  to  reign  in  the  little 
community.  There  is  no  quarrelling,  no  jealousy 
between  neighbours.  The  feast  has  commenced  ;  food 
is  abundant,  and  the  f casters  are  separated  one  from 
another  by  the  walls  of  uneaten  substance.      With  this 
THE  PEA- WEEVIL  269 
isolation  in  separate  cells  no  conflicts  need  be  feared  ; 
no  sudden  bite  of  the  mandibles,  whether  intentional  or 
accidental.  All  the  occupants  enjoy  the  same  rights  of 
property,  the  same  appetite,  and  the  same  strength. 
How  does  this  communal  feast  terminate  ? 
Having  first  opened  them,  I  place  a  number  of  peas 
which  are  found  to  be  well  peopled  in  a  glass  test-tube. 
I  open  others  daily.  In  this  way  I  keep  myself  informed 
as  to  the  progress  of  the  various  larvae.  At  first  nothing 
noteworthy  is  to  be  seen.  Isolated  in  its  narrow 
chamber,  each  grub  nibbles  the  substance  around  it, 
peacefully  and  parsimoniously.  It  is  still  very  small ; 
a  mere  speck  of  food  is  a  feast  ;  but  the  contents  of 
one  pea  will  not  suffice  the  whole  number  to  the  end. 
Famine  is  ahead,  and  all  but  one  must  perish. 
Soon,  indeed,  the  aspect  of  things  is  entirely  changed. 
One  of  the  grubs — that  which  occupies  the  central 
position  in  the  pea — begins  to  grow  more  quickly  than 
the  others.  Scarcely  has  it  surpassed  the  others  in  size 
when  the  latter  cease  to  eat,  and  no  longer  attempt  to 
burrow  forwards.  They  lie  motionless  and  resigned  ;  they 
die  that  gentle  death  which  comes  to  unconscious  lives. 
Henceforth  the  entire  pea  belongs  to  the  sole  survivor. 
Now  what  has  happened  that  these  lives  around  the 
privileged  one  should  be  thus  annihilated  ?  In  default 
of  a  satisfactory  reply,  I  -will  propose  a  suggestion. 
In  the  centre  of  the  pea,  less  ripened  than  the  rest  of 
the  seed  by  the  chemistry  of  the  sun,  may  there  not  be 
a  softer  pulp,  of  a  quality  better  adapted  to  the  infantile 
digestion  of  the  grub  ?  There,  perhaps,  being  nourished 
by  tenderer,  sweeter,  and  perhaps  more  tasty  tissues, 
the  stomach  becomes  more  vigorous,  until  it  is  fit  to 
270     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE    INSECT  WORLD 
undertake  less  easily  digested  food.  A  nursling  is  fed  on 
milk  before  proceeding  to  bread  and  broth.  May  not 
the  central  portion  of  the  pea  be  the  feeding-bottle  of 
the  Bruchid  ? 
With  equal  rights,  fired  by  an  equal  ambition,  all  the 
occupants  of  the  pea  bore  their  way  towards  the  delicious 
morsel.  The  journey  is  laborious,  and  the  grubs  must 
rest  frequently  in  their  provisional  niches.  They  rest ; 
while  resting  they  frugally  gnaw  the  riper  tissues 
surrounding  them ;  they  gnaw  rather  to  open  a  way 
than  to  fill  their  stomachs. 
Finally  one  of  the  excavators,  favoured  by  the 
direction  taken,  attains  the  central  portion.  It 
establishes  itself  there,  and  all  is  over ;  the  others  have 
only  to  die.  How  are  they  warned  that  the  place  is 
taken  ?  Do  they  hear  their  brother  gnawing  at  the 
walls  of  his  lodging  ?  can  they  feel  the  vibration  set 
up  by  his  nibbling  mandibles  ?  Something  of  the 
kind  must  happen,  for  from  that  moment  they  make  no 
attempt  to  burrow  further.  Without  struggling  against 
the  fortunate  winner,  without  seeking  to  dislodge  him, 
those  which  are  beaten  in  the  race  give  themselves  up 
to  death.  I  admire  this  candid  resignation  on  the  part 
of  the  departed. 
Another  condition — that  of  space — is  also  present  as  a 
factor.  The  pea-weevil  is  the  largest  of  our  Bruchidae. 
When  it  attains  the  adult  stage  it  requires  a  certain 
amplitude  of  lodging,  which  the  other  weevils  do  not 
require  in  the  same  degree.  A  pea  provides  it  with  a 
sufficiently  spacious  cell ;  nevertheless,  the  cohabitation 
of  two  in  one  pea  would  be  impossible  ;  there  would 
be  no  room,  even  were  the  two  to  put  up  with  a  certain 
THE  PEA- WEEVIL  271 
discomfort.  Hence  the  necessity  of  an  inevitable 
decimation,  which  will  suppress  all  the  competitors  save 
one. 
Now  the  superior  volume  of  the  broad  bean,  which  is 
almost  as  much  beloved  by  the  weevil  as  the  pea,  can 
lodge  a  considerable  community,  and  the  solitary  can 
live  as  a  cenobite.  Without  encroaching  on  the  domain 
of  their  neighbours,  five  or  six  or  more  can  find  room 
in  the  one  bean. 
Moreover,  each  grub  can  find  its  infant  diet ;  that  is, 
that  layer  which,  remote  from  the  surface,  hardens  only 
gradually  and  remains  full  of  sap  until  a  comparatively 
late  period.  This  inner  layer  represents  the  crumb  of 
a  loaf,  the  rest  of  the  bean  being  the  crust. 
In  the  pea,  a  sphere  of  much  less  capacity,  it  occupies 
the  central  portion ;  a  limited  point  at  which  the  grub 
develops,  and  lacking  which  it  perishes ;  but  in  the 
bean  it  lines  the  wide  adjoining  faces  of  the  two  flattened 
cotyledons.  No  matter  where  the  point  of  attack  is 
made,  the  grub  has  only  to  bore  straight  down  when  it 
quickly  reaches  the  softer  tissues.  What  is  the  result  ? 
I  have  counted  the  eggs  adhering  to  a  bean-pod  and  the 
beans  included  in  the  pod,  and  comparing  the  two 
figures  I  find  that  there  is  plenty  of  room  for  the  whole 
family  at  the  rate  of  five  or  six  dwellers  in  each  bean. 
No  superfluous  larvae  perish  of  hunger  when  barely 
issued  from  the  egg  ;  all  have  their  share  of  the  ample 
provision  ;  all  live  and  prosper.  The  abundance  of  food 
balances  the  prodigal  fertility  of  the  mother. 
If  the  Bruchus  were  always  to  adopt  the  broad  bean  for 
the  establishment  of  her  family  I  could  well  understand  the 
exuberant  allowance  of  eggs  to  one  pod ;   a  rich  food- 
272     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
stuff  easily  obtained  evokes  a  large  batch  of  eggs.  But 
the  case  of  the  pea  perplexes  me.  By  what  aberration 
does  the  mother  abandon  her  children  to  starvation  on 
this  totally  insufficient  vegetable  ?  Why  so  many  grubs 
to  each  pea  when  one  pea  is  sufficient  only  for  one 
grub  ? 
Matters  are  not  so  arranged  in  the  general  balance- 
sheet  of  life.  A  certain  foresight  seems  to  rule  over  the 
ovary  so  that  the  number  of  mouths  is  in  proportion  to 
the  abundance  or  scarcity  of  the  food  consumed.  The 
Scarabaeus,  the  Sphex,  the  Necrophorus,  and  other 
insects  which  prepare  and  preserve  alimentary  provision 
for  their  families,  are  all  of  a  narrowly  limited  fertility, 
because  the  balls  of  dung,  the  dead  or  paralysed  insects, 
or  the  buried  corpses  of  animals  on  which  their  offspring 
are  nourished  are  provided  only  at  the  cost  of  laborious 
efforts. 
The  ordinary  bluebottle,  on  the  contrary,  which  lays 
her  eggs  upon  butcher's  meat  or  carrion,  lays  them  in 
enormous  batches.  Trusting  in  the  inexhaustible  riches 
represented  by  the  corpse,  she  is  prodigal  of  offspring, 
and  takes  no  account  of  numbers.  In  other  cases  the 
provision  is  acquired  by  audacious  brigandage,  which 
exposes  the  newly  born  offspring  to  a  thousand  mortal 
accidents.  In  such  cases  the  mother  balances  the 
chances  of  destruction  by  an  exaggerated  flux  of  eggs. 
Such  is  the  case  with  the  Meloides,  which,  stealing  the 
goods  of  others  under  conditions  of  the  greatest  peril, 
are  accordingly  endowed  with  a  prodigious  fertility. 
The  Bruchus  knows  neither  the  fatigues  of  the 
laborious,  obliged  to  limit  the  size  of  her  family,  nor 
the  misfortunes  of  the  parasite,  obliged  to  produce  an 
THE  PEA- WEEVIL  TTTS 
exaggerated  number  of  offspring.  Without  painful 
search,  entirely  at  her  ease,  merely  moving  in  the  sun- 
shine over  her  favourite  plant,  she  can  ensure  a  sufficient 
provision  for  each  of  her  offspring  ;  she  can  do  so,  yet 
is  foolish  enough  to  over-populate  the  pod  of  the  pea  ; 
a  nursery  insufficiently  provided,  in  which  the  great 
majority  will  perish  of  starvation.  This  ineptitude  is 
a  thing  I  cannot  understand  :  it  clashes  too  completely 
with  the  habitual  foresight  of  the  maternal  instinct. 
I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  the  pea  is  not  the  original 
food  plant  of  the  Bruchus.  The  original  plant  must 
rather  have  been  the  bean,  one  seed  of  which  is  capable 
of  supporting  half  a  dozen  or  more  larvae.  With  the 
larger  cotyledon  the  crying  disproportion  between  the 
number  of  eggs  and  the  available  provision  disappears. 
Moreover,  it  is  indubitable  that  the  bean  is  of  earlier 
date  than  the  pea.  Its  exceptional  size  and  its  agreeable 
flavour  would  certainly  have  attracted  the  attention  of 
man  from  the  remotest  periods.  The  bean  is  a  ready- 
made  mouthful,  and  would  be  of  the  greatest  value  to  the 
hungry  tribe.  Primitive  man  would  at  an  early  date 
have  sown  it  beside  his  wattled  hut.  Coming  from  Cen- 
tral Asia  by  long  stages,  their  wagons  drawn  by  shaggy 
oxen  and  rolling  on  the  circular  discs  cut  from  the 
trunks  of  trees,  the  early  immigrants  would  have  brought 
to  our  virgin  land,  first  the  bean,  then  the  pea,  and  finally 
the  cereal,  that  best  of  safeguards  against  famine.  They 
taught  us  the  care  of  herds,  and  the  use  of  bronze,  the 
material  of  the  first  metal  implement.  Thus  the  dawn  of 
civilisation  arose  over  France.  With  the  bean  did  those 
ancient  teachers  also  involuntarily  bring  us  the  insect 
which  to-day  disputes  it  with  us  ?     It  i&  doubtful ;  the 
19 
274     SOCIAL  LIFE  EN   THE  INSECT  WORLD 
Bruchidae  seem  to  be  indigenous.  At  all  events,  I  find 
them  levying  tribute  from  various  indigenous  plants,  wild 
vegetables  which  have  never  tempted  the  appetite  of  man. 
They  abound  in  particular  upon  the  great  forest  vetch 
(Lathyrus  lati/olius),  with  its  magnificent  heads  of 
flowers  and  long  handsome  pods.  The  seeds  are  not 
large,  being  indeed  smaller  than  the  garden  pea  ;  but 
eaten  to  the  very  skin,  as  they  invariably  are,  each  is 
sufficient  to  the  needs  of  its  grub. 
We  must  not  fail  to  note  their  number.  I  have  counted 
more  than  twenty  in  a  single  pod,  a  number  unknown  in 
the  case  of  the  pea,  even  in  the  most  prolific  varieties. 
Consequently  this  superb  vetch  is  in  general  able  to 
nourish  without  much  loss  the  family  confided  to  its 
pod. 
Where  the  forest  vetch  is  lacking,  the  Bruchus,  none 
the  less,  bestows  its  habitual  prodigality  of  eggs  upon 
another  vegetable  of  similar  flavour,  but  incapable  of 
nourishing  all  the  grubs  :  for  the  example,  the  travelling 
vetch  {Vicia  pcregrina)  or  the  cultivated  vetch  (Vicia 
saliva).  The  number  of  eggs  remains  high  even  upon 
insufficient  pods,  because  the  original  food-plant  offered 
a  copious  provision,  both  in  the  multiplicity  and  the  size 
of  the  seeds.  If  the  Bruchus  is  really  a  stranger,  let  us 
regard  the  bean  as  the  original  food-plant ;  if  indigenous, 
the  large  vetch. 
Sometime  in  the  remote  past  we  received  the  pea, 
growing  it  at  first  in  the  prehistoric  vegetable  garden 
which  already  supplied  the  bean.  It  was  found  a  better 
article  of  diet  than  the  broad  bean,  which  to-day,  after 
such  good  service,  is  comparatively  neglected.  The 
weevil  was  of  the  same  opinion  as  man,  and   without 
THE  PEA-WEEVIL  275 
entirely  forgetting  the  bean  and  the  vetch  it  established 
the  greater  part  of  its  tribe  upon  the  pea,  which  from 
century  to  century  was  more  widely  cultivated.  To-day 
we  have  to  share  our  peas  :  the  Bruchidae  take  what  they 
need,  and  bestow  their  leavings  on  us. 
This  prosperity  of  the  insect  which  is  the  oflFspring  of 
the  abundance  and  quality  of  our  garden  products  is 
from  another  point  of  view  equivalent  to  decadence. 
For  the  weevil,  as  for  ourselves,  progress  in  matters  of 
food  and  drink  is  not  always  beneficial.  The  race  would 
profit  better  if  it  remained  frugal.  On  the  bean  and  the 
vetch  the  Bruchus  founded  colonies  in  which  the  infant 
mortality  was  low.  There  was  room  for  all.  On  the 
pea-vine,  delicious  though  its  fruits  may  be,  the  greater 
part  of  its  offspring  die  of  starvation.  The  rations  are 
few,  and  the  hungry  mouths  are  multitudinous. 
We  will  linger  over  this  problem  no  longer.  Let  us 
observe  the  grub  which  has  now  become  the  sole 
tenant  of  the  pea  by  the  death  of  its  brothers.  It  has  had 
no  part  in  their  death  ;  chance  has  favoured  it,  that  is  all. 
In  the  centre  of  the  pea,  a  wealthy  solitude,  it  performs 
the  duty  of  a  grub  ;  the  sole  duty  of  eating.  It  nibbles 
the  walls  enclosing  it,  enlarging  its  lodgment,  which  is 
always  entirely  filled  by  its  corpulent  body.  It  is  well 
shaped,  fat,  and  shining  with  health.  If  I  disturb  it,  it 
turns  gently  in  its  niche  and  sways  its  head.  This  is  its 
manner  of  complaining  of  my  importunities.  Let  us 
leave  it  in  peace. 
It  profits  so  greatly  and  so  swiftly  by  its  position  that 
by  the  time  the  dog-days  have  come  it  is  already  pre- 
paring for  its  approaching  liberation.  The  adult  is  not 
sufficiently  well  equipped  to  open  for  itself  a  way  out 
276     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
through  the  pea,  which  is  now  completely  hardened. 
The  larva  knows  of  this  future  helplessness,  and  with 
consummate  art  provides  for  its  release.  With  its  powerful 
mandibles  it  bores  a  channel  of  exit,  exactly  round,  with 
extremely  clean-cut  sides.  The  most  skilful  ivory-carver 
could  do  no  better. 
To  prepare  the  door  of  exit  in  advance  is  not  enough  ; 
the  grub  must  also  provide  for  the  tranquillity  essential  to 
the  delicate  processes  of  nymphosis.  An  intruder  might 
enter  by  the  open  door  and  injure  the  helpless  nymph. 
This  passage  must  therefore  remain  closed.     But  how  ? 
As  the  grub  bores  the  passage  of  exit  it  consumes  the 
farinaceous  matter  without  leaving  a  crumb.  Having 
come  to  the  skin  of  the  pea  it  stops  short.  This  mem- 
brane, semi-translucid,  is  the  door  to  the  chamber  of 
metamorphosis,  its  protection  against  the  evil  intentions 
of  external  creatures. 
It  is  also  the  only  obstacle  which  the  adult  will  en- 
counter at  the  moment  of  exit.  To  lessen  the  difficulty 
of  opening  it  the  grub  takes  the  precaution  of  gnawing  at 
the  inner  side  of  the  skin,  all  round  the  circumference,  so 
as  to  make  a  line  of  least  resistance.  The  perfect  insect 
will  only  have  to  heave  with  its  shoulder  and  strike  a  few 
blows  with  its  head  in  order  to  raise  the  circular  door  and 
knock  it  off  like  the  lid  of  a  box.  The  passage  of  exit 
shows  through  the  diaphanous  skin  of  the  pea  as  a  large 
circular  spot,  which  is  darkened  by  the  obscurity  of  the 
interior.  What  passes  behind  it  is  invisible,  hidden  as  it 
is  behind  a  sort  of  ground-glass  window. 
A  pretty  invention,  this  little  closed  porthole,  this 
barricade  against  the  invader,  this  trap-door  raised  by  a 
push  when  the  time  has  come  for  the  hermit  to  enter  the 
THE  PEA- WEEVIL  277 
world.  Shall  we  credit  it  to  the  Bruchus  ?  Did  the 
ingenious  insect  conceive  the  undertaking  ?  Did  it  think 
out  a  plan  and  work  out  a  scheme  of  its  own  devising  ? 
This  would  be  no  small  triumph  for  the  brain  of  a 
weevil.  Before  coming  to  a  conclusion  let  us  try  an 
experiment. 
I  deprive  certain  occupied  peas  of  their  skin,  and  I 
dry  them  with  abnormal  rapidity,  placing  them  in 
glass  test-tubes.  The  grubs  prosper  as  well  as  in  the 
intact  peas.  At  the  proper  time  the  preparations  for 
emergence  are  made. 
If  the  grub  acts  on  its  own  inspiration,  if  it  ceases 
to  prolong  its  boring  directly  it  recognises  that  the 
outer  coating,  auscultated  from  time  to  time,  is 
sufficiently  thin,  what  will  it  do  under  the  conditions 
of  the  present  test  ?  Feeling  itself  at  the  requisite 
distance  from  the  surface  it  will  stop  boring  ;  it  will 
respect  the  outer  layer  of  the  bare  pea,  and  will  thus 
obtain  the  indispensable  protecting  screen. 
Nothing  of  the  kind  occurs.  In  every  case  the  passage 
is  completely  excavated  ;  the  entrance  gapes  wide 
open,  as  large  and  as  carefully  executed  as  though 
the  skin  of  the  pea  were  in  its  place.  Reasons  of 
security  have  failed  to  modify  the  usual  method  of 
work.  This  open  lodging  has  no  defence  against  the 
enemy  ;  but  the  grub  exhibits  no  anxiety  on  this  score. 
Neither  is  it  thinking  of  the  outer  enemy  when  it 
bores  down  to  the  skin  when  the  pea  is  intact,  and 
then  stops  short.  It  suddenly  stops  because  the 
mnutritious  skin  is  not  to  its  taste.  We  ourselves 
remove  the  parchment-like  skins  from  a  mess  of  pease- 
pudding,  as  from  a  culinary  point  of  view  they  are  so 
278     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
much  waste  matter.  The  larva  of  the  Bruchus,  like 
ourselves,  dislikes  the  skin  of  the  pea.  It  stops  short 
at  the  horny  covering,  simply  because  it  is  checked  by 
an  uneatable  substance.  From  this  aversion  a  little 
miracle  arises  ;  but  the  insect  has  no  sense  of  logic  ; 
it  is  passively  obedient  to  the  superior  logic  of  facts. 
It  obeys  its  instinct,  as  unconscious  of  its  act  as  is  a 
crystal  when  it  assembles,  in  exquisite  order,  its 
battalions  of  atoms. 
Sooner  or  later  during  the  month  of  August  we  see 
a  shadowy  circle  form  on  each  inhabited  pea ;  but 
only  one  on  each  seed.  These  circles  of  shadow  mark 
the  doors  of  exit.  Most  of  them  open  in  September. 
The  lid,  as  though  cut  out  with  a  punch,  detaches 
itself  cleanly  and  falls  to  the  ground,  leaving  the  orifice 
free.  The  Bruchus  emerges,  freshly  clad,  in  its  final 
form. 
The  weather  is  delightful.  Flowers  are  abundant, 
awakened  by  the  summer  showers ;  and  the  weevils 
visit  them  in  the  lovely  autumn  weather.  Then,  when 
the  cold  sets  in,  they  take  up  their  winter  quarters  in 
any  suitable  retreat.  Others,  still  numerous,  are  less 
hasty  in  quitting  the  native  seed.  They  remain  within 
during  the  whole  winter,  sheltered  behind  the  trap-door, 
which  they  take  care  not  to  touch.  The  door  of  the 
cell  will  not  open  on  its  hinges,  or,  to  be  exact,  will 
not  yield  along  the  line  of  least  resistance,  until  the 
warm  days  return.  Then  the  late  arrivals  will  leave 
their  shelter  and  rejoin  the  more  impatient,  and  both 
will  be  ready  for  work  when  the  pea-vines  are  in 
flower. 
To   take  a  general   view    of    the    instincts    in    their 
THE   PEA- WEEVIL  279 
inexhaustible  variety  is,  for  the  observer,  the  great 
attraction  of  the  entomological  world;  for  nowhere 
do  we  gain  a  clearer  sight  of  the  wonderful  way  in 
which  the  processes  of  life  are  ordered.  Thus  regarded 
entomology  is  not,  I  know,  to  the  taste  of  everybody ; 
the  simple  creature  absorbed  in  the  doings  and  habits 
of  insects  is  held  in  low  esteem.  To  the  terrible 
utilitarian,  a  bushel  of  peas  preserved  from  the  weevil 
is  of  more  importance  than  a  volume  of  observations 
which  bring  no  immediate  profit. 
Yet  who  has  told  you,  O  man  of  little  faith,  that 
what  is  useless  to-day  will  not  be  useful  to-morrow  ? 
If  we  learn  the  customs  of  insects  or  animals  we  shall 
understand  better  how  to  protect  our  goods.  Do  not 
despise  disinterested  knowledge,  or  you  may  rue  the 
day.  It  is  by  the  accumulation  of  ideas,  whether 
immediately  applicable  or  otherwise,  that  humanity  has 
done,  and  will  continue  to  do,  better  to-day  than 
yesterday,  and  better  to-morrow  than  to-day.  If  we 
live  on  peas  and  beans,  which  we  dispute  with  the 
weevil,  we  also  live  by  knowledge,  that  mighty  kneading- 
trough  in  which  the  bread  of  progress  is  mixed  and 
leavened.     Knowledge  is  well  worth  a  few  beans. 
Among  other  things,  knowledge  tells  us:  "The 
seedsman  need  not  go  to  the  expense  of  waging  war 
upon  the  weevil.  When  the  peas  arrive  in  the  granary, 
the  harm  is  already  done  ;  it  is  irreparable,  but  not 
transmissible.  The  untouched  peas  have  nothing  to 
fear  from  the  neighbourhood  of  those  which  have  been 
attacked,  however  long  the  mixture  is  left.  From  the 
latter  the  weevils  will  issue  when  their  time  has  come ; 
they  will   fly    away    from   the   storehouse   if  escape   is 
280     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT   WORLD 
possible  ;  if  not,  they  will  perish  without  in  any  way 
attacking  the  sound  peas.  No  eggs,  no  new  generation 
will  ever  be  seen  upon  or  within  the  dried  peas  in 
the  storehouse  ;  there  the  adult  weevil  can  work  no 
rurther  mischief." 
The  Bruchus  is  not  a  sedentary  inhabitant  of 
granaries:  it  requires  the  open  air,  the  sun,  the  liberty 
of  the  fields.  Frugal  in  everything,  it  absolutely  disdains 
the  hard  tissues  of  the  vegetable ;  its  tiny  mouth  is 
content  with  a  few  honeyed  mouthfuls,  enjoyed  upon 
the  flowers.  The  larvae,  on  the  other  hand,  require 
the  tender  tissues  of  the  green  pea  growing  in  the 
pod.  For  these  reasons  the  granary  knows  no  final 
multiplication  on  the  part  of  the  despoiler. 
The  origin  of  the  evil  is  in  the  kitchen-garden.  It 
IS  there  that  we  ought  to  keep  a  watch  on  the  misdeeds 
of  the  Bruchus,  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  we  are 
nearly  always  weaponless  when  it  comes  to  fighting 
,in  insect.  Indestructible  by  reason  of  its  numbers,  its 
small  size,  and  its  cunning,  the  little  creature  laughs 
at  the  anger  of  man.  The  gardener  curses  it,  but  the 
weevil  is  not  disturbed  :  it  imperturbably  continues  its 
trade  of  levying  tribute.  Happily  we  have  assistants 
more  patient  and  more  clear-sighted  than  ourselves. 
During  the  first  week  of  August,  when  the  mature 
Bruchus  begins  to  emerge,  I  notice  a  little  Chalcidian, 
the  protector  of  our  peas.  In  my  rearing-cages  it 
issues  under  my  eyes  in  abundance  from  the  peas 
m tested  by  the  grub  of  the  weevil.  The  female  has  a 
reddish  head  ana  thorax ;  the  abdomen  is  black,  with 
a  long  augur-like  oviscapt.  The  male,  a  little  smaller, 
is  black.  Both  sexes  have  reddish  claws  and  thread- 
like antennae. 
THE  PEA-WEEVIL  281 
In  order  to  escape  from  the  pea  the  slayer  of  the 
weevil  makes  an  opening  in  the  centre  of  the  circular 
trap-door  which  the  grub  of  the  weevil  prepared  in 
view  of  its  future  deliverance.  The  slain  has  prepared 
the  way  for  the  slayer.  After  this  detail  the  rest  may 
be  divined. 
When  the  preliminaries  to  the  metamorphosis  are 
completed,  when  the  passage  of  escape  is  bored  and 
furnished  with  its  lid  of  superficial  membrane,  the 
female  Chalcidian  arrives  in  a  busy  mood.  She 
inspects  the  peas,  still  on  the  vine,  and  enclosed  in 
their  pods ;  she  auscultates  them  with  her  antennas  ; 
she  discovers,  hidden  under  the  general  envelope,  the 
weak  points  in  the  epidermic  covering  of  the  peas. 
Then,  applying  her  oviscapt,  she  thrusts  it  through  the 
side  of  the  pod  and  perforates  the  circular  trap-door. 
However  far  v/ithdrawn  into  the  centre  of  the  pea,  the 
Bruchus,  whether  larvae  or  nymph,  is  reached  by  the 
long  oviduct.  It  receives  an  egg  in  its,  tender  flesh, 
and  the  thing  is  done.  Without  possibility  of  defence, 
since  it  is  by  now  a  somnolent  grub  or  a  helpless 
pupa,  the  embryo  weevil  is  eaten  until  nothing  but 
skin  remains.  What  a  pity  that  we  cannot  at  will 
assist  the  multiplication  of  this  eager  exterminator  I 
Alas !  our  assistants  have  got  us  in  a  vicious  circle, 
for  if  we  wished  to  obtain  the  help  of  any  great 
number  of  Chalcidians  we  should  be  obliged  in  the 
iirst  place  to  breed  a  multiplicity  of  Bfuchidae. 