CHAPTER    XII 
THE   SISYPHUS   BEETLE. — THE   INSTINCT  OF  PATERNITY 
The  duties  of  paternity  are  seldom  imposed  on  any 
but  the  higher  animals.  They  are  most  notable  in  the 
bird  ;  and  the  furry  peoples  acquit  themselves  honour- 
ably. Lower  in  the  scale  we  find  in  the  father  a 
general  indifference  as  to  the  fate  of  the  family.  Very 
few  insects  form  exceptions  to  this  rule.  Although  all 
are  imbued  with  a  mating  instinct  that  is  almost 
frenzied,  nearly  all,  when  the  passion  of  the  moment 
is  appeased,  terminate  then  and  there  their  domestic 
relations,  and  withdraw,  indifferent  to  the  brood,  which 
has  to  look  after  itself  as  best  it  may. 
This  paternal  coldness,  which  would  be  odious  in 
the  higher  walks  of  animal  life,  where  the  weakness  of 
the  young  demands  prolonged  assistance,  has  in  the 
insect  world  the  excuse  that  the  new-born  young  are 
comparatively  robust,  and  are  able,  without  help,  to 
fill  their  mouths  and  stomachs,  provided  they  find 
themselves  in  propitious  surroundings.  All  that  the 
prosperity  of  the  race  demands  of  the  Pierides,  or 
Cabbage  Butterflies,  is  that  they  should  deposit  their 
eggs  on  the  leaves  of  the  cabbage  ;  what  purpose 
would    be   served   by   the   instincts  of  a   father  ?    The 
186 
THE  SISYPHUS  BEETLE  137 
botanical  instinct  of  the  mother  needs  no  assistance. 
At  the  period  of  laying  the  father  would  be  in  the 
way.  Let  him  pursue  his  flirtations  elsewhere ;  the 
laying  of  eggs  is  a  serious  business.  * 
In  the  case  of  the  majority  of  insects  the  process 
of  education  is  unknown,  or  summary  in  the  extreme. 
The  insect  has  only  to  select  a  grazing-ground  upon 
which  its  family  will  establish  itself  the  moment  it 
is  hatched ;  or  a  site  which  will  allow  the  young  to 
find  their  proper  sustenance  for  themselves.  There  is 
no  need  of  a  father  in  these  various  cases.  After 
mating,  the  discarded  male,  who  is  henceforth  useless, 
drags  out  a  lingering  existence  of  a  few  days,  and 
finally  perishes  without  having  given  the  slightest 
assistance  in  the  work  of  installing  his  offspring. 
But  matters  are  not  everywhere  so  primitive  as  this. 
There  are  tribes  in  which  an  inheritance  is  prepared 
for  the  family  which  will  assure  it  both  of  food  and 
of  shelter  in  advance.  The  Hymenoptera  in  particular 
are  past-masters  in  the  provision  of  cellars,  jars,  and 
other  utensils  in  which  the  honey-paste  destined  for 
the  young  is  stored ;  they  are  perfect  in  the  art  of 
excavating  store-houses  of  food  for  their  grubs. 
This  stupendous  labour  of  construction  and  provision- 
ing, this  labour  that  absorbs  the  insect's  whole  life,  is 
the  work  of  the  mother  only,  who  wears  herself  out 
at  her  task.  The  father,  intoxicated  with  sunlight,  lies 
idle  on  the  threshold  of  the  workshop,  watching  the 
heroic  female  at  her  work,  and  regards  himself  as 
excused  from  all  labour  when  he  has  plagued  his 
neighbours  a  little. 
Does  he  never  perform  useful  work  ?    Why  does  he 
138     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
not  follow  the  example  of  the  swallows,  each  of  whom 
brings  a  fair  share  of  the  straw  and  mortar  for  the 
building  of  the  nest  and  the  midges  for  the  young 
brood  ?  No,  he  does  nothing  ;  perhaps  alleging  the 
excuse  of  his  relative  weakness.  But  this  is  a  poor 
excuse  ;  for  to  cut  out  little  circles  from  a  leaf,  to  rake 
a  little  cotton  from  a  downy  plant,  or  to  gather  a  little 
mortar  from  a  muddy  spot,  would  hardly  be  a  task 
beyond  his  powers.  He  might  very  well  collaborate, 
at  least  as  labourer  ;  he  could  at  least  gather  together 
the  materials  for  the  more  intelligent  mother  to  place 
in  position.  The  true  motive  of  his  idleness  is 
ineptitude. 
It  is  a  curious  thing  that  the  Hymenoptera,  the 
most  skilful  of  all  industrial  insects,  know  nothing  of 
paternal  labour.  The  male  of  the  genus,  in  whom 
we  should  expect  the  requirements  of  the  young  to 
develop  the  highest  aptitudes,  is  as  useless  as  a 
butterfly,  whose  family  costs  so  little  to  establish.  The 
actual  distribution  of  instinct  upsets  our  most  reason- 
able previsions. 
It  upsets  our  expectations  so  completely  that  we 
are  surprised  to  find  in  the  dung-beetle  the  noble 
prerogative  which  is  lacking  in  the  bee  tribe.  The 
mates  of  several  species  of  dung-beetle  keep  house 
together  and  know  the  worth  of  mutual  labour.  Con- 
sider the  male  and  female  Geotrupes,  which  prepare 
together  the  patrimony  of  their  larvae  ;  in  their  case 
the  father  assists  his  companion  with  the  pressure  of 
his  robust  body  in  the  manufacture  of  their  balls  of 
compressed  nutriment.  These  domestic  habits  are 
astonishing  amidst  the  general  isolation. 
THE  SISYPHUS  BEETLE  139 
To  this  example,  hitherto  unique,  my  continual 
researches  in  this  direction  permit  me  to-day  to  add 
three  others  which  are  fully  as  interesting.  All  three 
are  members  of  the  corporation  of  dung-beetles.  I 
will  relate  their  habits,  but  briefly,  as  in  many  respects 
their  history  is  the  same  as  that  of  the  Sacred 
Scarabaeus,  the  Spanish  Copris,  and  others. 
The  first  example  is  the  Sisyphus  beetle  {Sisyphus 
Schcefferi,  Lin.),  the  smallest  and  most  industrious  of  our 
pill-makers,  it  has  no  equal  in  lively  agility,  grotesque 
somersaults,  and  sudden  tumbles  down  the  impossible 
paths  or  over  the  impracticable  obstacles  to  which  its 
obstinacy  is  perpetually  leading  it.  In  allusion  to  these 
frantic  gymnastics  Latreille  has  given  the  insect  the 
name  of  Sisyphus,  after  the  celebrated  inmate  of  the 
classic  Hades.  This  unhappy  spirit  underwent  terrible 
exertions  in  his  efforts  to  heave  to  the  top  of  a  mountain 
an  enormous  rock,  which  always  escaped  him  at  the 
moment  of  attaining  the  summit,  and  rolled  back  to  the 
foot  of  the  slope.  Begin  again,  poor  Sisyphus,  begin 
again,  begin  again  always  !  Your  torments  will  never 
cease  until  the  rock  is  firmly  placed  upon  the  summit 
of  the  mountain. 
I  like  this  myth.  It  is,  in  a  way,  the  history  of  many 
of  us  ;  not  odious  scoundrels  worthy  of  eternal  torments, 
but  worthy  and  laborious  folk,  useful  to  their  neigh- 
bours. One  crime  alone  is  theirs  to  expiate  :  the  crime 
of  poverty.  Half  a  century  or  more  ago,  for  my  own 
part,  I  left  many  blood-stained  tatters  on  the  crags 
of  the  inhospitable  mountain  ;  I  sweated,  strained  every 
nerve,  exhausted  my  veins,  spent  without  reckoning 
my  reserves  of   energy,  in  order  to  carry  upward  and 
UO     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT   WORLD 
lodge  in  a  place  of  security  that  crushing  burden,  my 
daily  bread  ;  and  hardly  was  the  load  balanced  but  it 
once  more  slipped  downwards,  fell,  and  was  engulfed. 
Begin  again,  poor  Sisyphus  ;  begin  again,  until  your 
burden,  falling  for  the  last  time,  shall  crush  your  head 
and  set  you  free  at  length. 
The  Sisyphus  of  the  naturalists  knows  nothing  of  these 
tribulations.  Agile  and  lively,  careless  of  slope  or  preci- 
pice, he  trundles  his  load,  which  is  sometimes  food  for 
himself,  sometimes  for  his  offspring.  He  is  very  rare 
hereabouts  ;  I  should  never  have  succeeded  in  obtaining 
a  sufficient  number  of  specimens  for  my  purpose  but  for 
an  assistant  whom  I  may  opportunely  present  to  the 
reader,  for  he  will  be  mentioned  again  in  these  recitals. 
This  is  my  son,  little  Paul,  aged  seven.  An  assiduous 
companion  of  the  chase,  he  knows  better  than  any  one 
of  his  age  the  secrets  of  the  Cigala,  the  Cricket,  and 
especially  of  the  dung-beetle,  his  great  delight.  At  a 
distance  of  twenty  yards  his  clear  sight  distinguishes 
the  refuse-tip  of  a  beetle's  burrow  from  a  chance  lump 
of  earth  ;  his  fine  ear  will  catch  the  chirping  of  a  grass- 
hopper inaudible  to  me.  He  lends  me  his  sight  and 
hearing,  and  I  in  return  make  him  free  of  my  thoughts, 
which  he  welcomes  attentively,  raising  his  wide  blue  eyes 
questioningly  to  mine. 
What  an  adorable  thing  is  the  first  blossoming  of  the 
intellect  !  Best  of  all  ages  is  that  when  the  candid 
curiosity  awakens  and  commences  to  acquire  know- 
ledge of  every  kind.  Little  Paul  has  his  own  insec- 
torium,  in  which  the  Scarabaeus  makes  his  balls ;  his 
garden,  the  size  of  a  handkerchief,  in  which  he  grows 
haricot  beans,  which  are  often  dug  up  to  see  if  the  little 
THE  SISYPHUS  BEETLE  141 
roots  are  growing  longer  ;  his  plantation,  containing  four 
oak-trees  an  inch  in  height,  to  which  the  acorns  still 
adhere.  These  serve  as  diversions  after  the  arid  study 
of  grammar,  which  goes  forward  none  the  worse  on  that 
account. 
What  beautiful  and  useful  knowledge  the  teaching 
of  natural  history  might  put  into  childish  heads,  if  only 
science  would  consider  the  very  young  ;  if  our  barracks 
of  universities  would  only  combine  the  lifeless  study  of 
books  with  the  living  study  of  the  fields  ;  if  only  the  red 
tape  of  the  curriculum,  so  dear  to  bureaucrats,  would  not 
strangle  all  willing  initiative.  Little  Paul  and  I  will 
study  as  much  as  possible  in  the  open  country,  among 
the  rosemary  bushes  and  arbutus.  There  we  shall  gain 
vigour  of  body  and  of  mind  ;  we  shall  find  the  true  and 
the  beautiful  better  than  in  school-books. 
To-day  the  blackboard  has  a  rest ;  it  is  a  holiday.  We 
rise  early,  in  view  of  the  intended  expedition  ;  so  early 
that  we  must  set  out  fasting.  But  no  matter ;  when  we 
are  hungry  we  shall  rest  in  the  shade,  and  you  will  find 
in  my  knapsack  the  usual  viaticum — apples  and  a  crust 
of  bread.  The  month  of  May  is  near ;  the  Sisyphus 
should  have  appeared.  Now  we  must  explore  at  the 
foot  of  the  mountain,  the  scanty  pastures  through  which 
the  herds  have  passed  ;  we  must  break  with  our  fingers, 
one  by  one,  the  cakes  of  sheep-dung  dried  by  the  sun, 
but  still  retaining  a  spot  of  moisture  in  the  centre. 
There  we  shall  find  Sisyphus,  cowering  and  waiting 
until  the  evening  for  fresher  pasturage. 
Possessed  of  this  secret,  which  I  learned  from  previous 
fortuitous  discoveries,  little  Paul  immediately  becomes 
a  master  in  the  art  of  dislodging  the  beetle.     He  shows 
142     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN  THE   INSECT  WORLD 
such  zeal,  has  such  an  instinct  for  hkely  hiding-places, 
that  after  a  brief  search  I  am  rich  beyond  my  ambitions. 
Behold  me  the  owner  of  six  couples  of  Sisyphus  beetles  : 
an  unheard-of  number,  which  I  had  never  hoped  to 
obtain. 
For  their  maintenance  a  wire-gauze  cover  suffices,  with 
a  bed  of  sand  and  diet  to  their  taste.  They  are  very 
small,  scarcely  larger  than  a  cherry-stone.  Their  shape 
is  extremely  curious.  The  body  is  dumpy,  tapering  to 
an  acorn-shaped  posterior ;  the  legs  are  very  long, 
resembling  those  of  the  spider  when  outspread ;  the 
hinder  legs  are  disproportionately  long  and  curved, 
being  thus  excellently  adapted  to  enlace  and  press  the 
little  pilule  of  dung. 
Mating  takes  place  towards  the  beginning  of  May,  on 
the  surface  of  the  soil,  among  the  remains  of  the  sheep- 
dung  on  which  the  beetles  have  been  feeding.  Soon  the 
moment  for  establishing  the  family  arrives.  With  equal 
zeal  the  two  partners  take  part  in  the  kneading,  transport, 
and  baking  of  the  food  for  their  offspring.  With  the 
file-like  forelegs  a  morsel  of  convenient  size  is  shaped 
from  the  piece  of  dung  placed  in  the  cage.  Father 
and  mother  manipulate  the  piece  together,  striking  it 
blows  with  their  claws,  compressing  it,  and  shaping 
it  into  a  ball  about  the  size  of  a  big  pea. 
As  in  the  case  of  the  Scarabceus  sacer,  the  exact 
spherical  form  is  produced  without  the  mechanical 
device  of  rolling  the  ball.  Before  it  is  moved,  even 
before  it  is  cut  loose  from  its  point  of  support,  the 
fragment  is  modelled  into  the  shape  of  a  sphere.  The 
beetle  as  geometer  is  aware  of  the  form  best  adapted 
to  the  long  preservation  of  preserved  foods. 
THE  SISYPHUS  BEETLE  143 
The  ball  is  soon  ready.  It  must  now  be  forced  to 
acquire,  by  means  of  a  vigorous  rolling,  the  crust  which 
will  protect  the  interior  from  a  too  rapid  evaporation. 
The  mother,  recognisable  by  her  slightly  robuster  body, 
takes  the  place  of  honour  in  front.  Her  long  hinder  legs 
on  the  soil,  her  forelegs  on  the  ball,  she  drags  it  towards 
her  as  she  walks  backwards.  The  father  pushes  behind, 
moving  tail  first,  his  head  held  low.  This  is  exactly  the 
method  of  the  Scarabaeus  beetles,  which  also  work  in 
couples,  though  for  another  object.  The  Sisyphus 
beetles  harness  themselves  to  provide  an  inheritance 
for  their  larvae ;  the  larger  insects  are  concerned  in 
obtaining  the  material  for  a  banquet  which  the  two 
chance-met  partners  will  consume  underground. 
The  couple  set  off,  with  no  definite  goal  ahead,  across 
the  irregularities  of  the  soil,  which  cannot  be  avoided  by 
a  leader  who  hauls  backwards.  But  even  if  the  Sisyphus 
saw  the  obstacles  she  would  not  try  to  evade  them  : 
witness  her  obstinate  endeavour  to  drag  her  load  up 
the  wire  gauze  of  her  cage  ! 
A  hopeless  undertaking  !  Fixing  her  hinder  claws 
in  the  meshes  of  the  wire  gauze  the  mother  drags  her 
burden  towards  her  ;  then,  enlacing  it  with  her  legs,  she 
holds  it  suspended.  The  father,  finding  no  purchase  for 
his  legs,  clutches  the  ball,  grows  on  to  it,  so  to  speak, 
thus  adding  his  weight  to  that  of  the  burden,  and  awaits 
events.  The  effort  is  too  great  to  last.  Ball  and  beetle 
fall  together.  The  mother,  from  above,  gazes  a  moment 
in  surprise,  and  suddenly  lets  herself  fall,  only  to  re-em- 
brace the  ball  and  recommence  her  impracticable  efforts 
to  scale  the  wall.  After  many  tumbles  the  attempt  is  at 
last  abandoned. 
144     SOCIAL  LIFE   IN   THE   INSECT  WORLD 
Even  on  level  ground  the  task  is  not  without  its  difi&- 
culties.  At  every  moment  the  load  swerves  on  the 
summit  of  a  pebble,  a  fragment  of  gravel ;  the  team 
are  overturned,  and  lie  on  their  backs,  kicking  their 
legs  in  the  air.  This  is  a  mere  nothing.  They  pick 
themselves  up  and  resume  their  positions,  always  quick 
and  lively.  The  accidents  which  so  often  throw  them 
on  their  backs  seem  to  cause  them  no  concern  ;  one 
would  even  think  they  were  invited.  The  pilule  has 
to  be  matured,  given  a  proper  consistency.  In  these 
conditions  falls,  shocks,  blows,  and  jolts  might  well 
enter  into  the  programme.  This  mad  trundling  lasts 
for  hours  and  hours. 
Finally,  the  mother,  considering  that  the  matter  has 
been  brought  to  a  satisfactory  conclusion,  departs  in 
search  of  a  favourable  place  for  storage.  The  father, 
crouched  upon  the  treasure,  waits.  If  the  absence  of 
his  companion  is  prolonged  he  amuses  himself  by 
rapidly  whirling  the  pill  between  his  hind  legs,  which 
are  raised  in  the  air.  He  juggles  with  the  precious 
burden  ;  he  tests  its  perfections  between  his  curved  legs, 
calliper-wise.  Seeing  him  frisking  in  this  joyful  occupa- 
tion, who  can  doubt  that  he  experiences  all  the  satis- 
factions of  a  father  assured  of  the  future  of  his  family  ? 
It  is  I,  he  seems  to  say,  it  is  I  who  have  made  this  loaf, 
so  beautifully  round  ;  it  is  I  who  have  made  the  hard 
crust  to  preserve  the  soft  dough  ;  it  is  I  who  have  baked 
it  for  my  sons  1  And  he  raises  on  high,  in  the  sight  of 
all,  this  magnificent  testimonial  of  his  labours. 
But  now  the  mother  has  chosen  the  site.  A  shallow 
pit  is  made,  the  mere  commencement  of  the  projected 
burrow     The  ball  is  pushed  and  pulled  until  it  is  close 
THE  SISYPHUS  BEETLE  145 
at  hand.  The  father,  a  vigilant  watchman,  still  retains 
his  hold,  while  the  mother  digs  with  claws  and  head. 
Soon  the  pit  is  deep  enough  to  receive  the  ball  ;  she 
cannot  dispense  with  the  close  contact  of  the  sacred 
object ;  she  must  feel  it  bobbing  behind  her,  against  her 
back,  safe  from  all  parasites  and  robbers,  before  she  can 
decide  to  burrow  further.  She  fears  what  might  happen 
to  the  precious  loaf  if  it  were  abandoned  at  the  threshold 
of  the  burrow  until  the  completion  of  the  dwelling. 
There  is  no  lack  of  midges  and  tiny  dung-beetles — 
Aphodiinze — which  might  take  possession  of  it.  It  is 
only  prudent  to  be  distrustful. 
So  the  ball  is  introduced  into  the  pit,  half  in  and  half 
out  of  the  mouth  of  the  burrow.  The  mother,  below, 
clasps  and  pulls  ;  the  father,  above,  moderates  the  jolts 
and  prevents  it  from  rolling.  All  goes  well.  Digging  is 
resumed,  and  the  descent  continues,  always  with  the 
same  prudence  ;  one  beetle  dragging  the  load,  the  other 
regulating  its  descent  and  clearing  away  all  rubbish  that 
might  hinder  the  operation.  A  few  more  efforts,  and  the 
ball  disappears  underground  with  the  two  miners.  What 
follows  will  be,  for  a  time  at  least,  only  a  repetition  of 
what  we  have  seen.     Let  us  wait  half  a  day  or  so. 
If  our  vigilance  is  not  relaxed  we  shall  see  the  father 
regain  the  surface  alone,  and  crouch  in  the  sand  near 
the  mouth  of  the  burrow.  Retained  by  duties  in  the 
performance  of  which  her  companion  can  be  of  no 
assistance,  the  mother  habitually  delays  her  reappearance 
until  the  following  day.  When  she  finally  emerges  the 
father  wakes  up,  leaves  his  hiding-place,  and  rejoins  her. 
The  reunited  couple  return  to  their  pasturage,  refresh 
themselves,  and  then  cut  out  another  ball  of  dung.     As 
11 
146     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
before,  both  share  the  work  ;  the  hewing  and  shaping, 
the  transport,  and  the  burial  in  ensilage. 
This  conjugal  fidelity  is  delightful  ;  but  is  it  really  the 
rule  ?  I  should  not  dare  to  affirm  that  it  is.  There  must 
be  flighty  individuals  who,  in  the  confusion  under  a 
large  cake  of  droppings,  forget  the  fair  confectioners  for 
whom  they  have  worked  as  journeymen,  and  devote 
themselves  to  the  services  of  others,  encountered  by 
chance  ;  there  must  be  temporary  unions,  and  divorces 
after  the  burial  of  a  single  pellet.  No  matter  :  fhe  little 
I  myself  have  seen  gives  me  a  high  opinion  of  the 
domestic  morals  of  the  Sisyphus. 
Let  us  consider  these  domestic  habits  a  little  further 
before  coming  to  the  contents  of  the  burrow.  The 
father  works  fully  as  hard  as  the  mother  at  the  extraction 
and  modelling  of  the  pellet  which  is  destined  to  be 
the  inheritance  of  a  larva  ;  he  shares  in  the  work  of 
transport,  even  if  he  plays  a  secondary  part ;  he  watches 
over  the  pellet  when  the  mother  is  absent,  seeking  for 
a  suitable  site  for  the  excavation  of  the  cellar ;  he 
helps  in  the  work  of  digging  ;  he  carries  away  the 
rubbish  from  the  burrow  ;  finally,  to  crown  all  these 
qualities,  he  is  in  a  great  measure  faithful  to  his  spouse. 
The  Scarabaeus  exhibits  some  of  these  characteristics. 
He  also  assists  his  spouse  in  the  preparation  of  pellets 
of  dung  ;  he  also  assists  her  to  transport  the  pellets,  the 
pair  facing  each  other  and  the  female  going  backwards. 
But  as  I  have  stated  already,  the  motive  of  this  mutual 
service  is  selfish  ;  the  two  partners  labour  only  for  their 
own  good.  The  feast  is  for  themselves  alone.  In  the 
labours  that  concern  the  family  the  female  Scarabasus 
receives  no   assistance.     Alone   she  moulds  her  sphere, 
THE   SISYPHtfS   BEETLE  ll7 
extracts  it  from  the  lump  and  rolls  it  backwards,  with  hei 
back  to  her  task,  in  the  position  adopted  by  the  male 
Sisyphus  ;  alone  she  excavates  her  burrow,  and  alone 
she  buries  the  fruit  of  her  labour.  Oblivious  of  the 
gravid  mother  and  the  future  brood,  the  male  gives  her 
no  assistance  in  her  exhausting  task.  How  different  to 
the  little  pellet-maker,  the  Sisyphus  ! 
It  is  now  time  to  visit  the  burrow.  At  no  very  great 
depth  we  find  a  narrow  chamber,  just  large  enough  for 
the  mother  to  move  around  at  her  work.  Its  very 
exiguity  proves  that  the  male  cannot  remain  under- 
ground ;  so  soon  as  the  chamber  is  ready  he  must 
retire  in  order  to  leave  the  female  room  to  move.  We 
have,  in  fact,  seen  that  he  returns  to  the  surface  long 
before  the  female. 
The  contents  of  the  cellar  consist  of  a  single  pellet, 
a  masterpiece  of  plastic  art.  It  is  a  miniature  repro- 
duction of  the  pear-shaped  ball  of  the  Scarabaeus,  a 
reproduction  whose  very  smallness  gives  an  added  value 
to  the  polish  of  the  surface  and  the  beauty  of  its  curves. 
Its  larger  diameter  varies  from  half  to  three-quarters  of 
an  inch.  It  is  the  most  elegant  product  of  the 
dung-beetle's  art. 
But  this  perfection  is  of  brief  duration.  Very  soon  the 
little  "pear"  becomes  covered  with  gnarled  excrescences, 
black  and  twisted,  which  disfigure  it  like  so  many  warts. 
Part  of  the  surface,  which  is  otherwise  intact,  disappears 
under  a  shapeless  mass.  The  origin  of  these  knotted 
excrescences  completely  deceived  me  at  first.  I  sus- 
pected some  cryptogamic  vegetation,  some  Sphericeccea, 
for  example,  recognisable  by  its  black,  knotted,  incrusted 
growth.     It  was  the  larva  that  showed  me  my  mistake. 
148     SOCIAL  LIFE  IN  THE  INSECT  WORLD 
The  larva  is  a  mags^ot  curved  like  a  hook,  carrying 
on  its  back  an  ample  pouch  or  hunch,  forming  part 
of  its  alimentary  canal.  The  reserve  of  excreta  in  this 
hunch  enables  it  to  seal  accidental  perforations  of  the 
shell  of  its  lodging  with  an  instantaneous  jet  of  mortar. 
These  sudden  emissions,  like  little  worm-casts,  are  also 
practised  by  the  Scarabajus,  but  the  latter  rarely  makes 
use  of  them. 
The  larvae  of  the  various  dung-beetles  utilise  their 
alimentary  residues  in  rough-casting  their  houses,  which 
by  their  difnensions  lend  themselves  to  this  method 
of  disposal,  while  evading  the  necessity  of  opening 
temporary  windows  by  which  the  ordure  can  be  ex- 
pelled. Whether  for  lack  of  sufficient  room,  or  for 
other  reasons  which  escape  me,  the  larva  of  the 
Sisyphus,  having  employed  a  certain  amount  in  the 
smoothing  of  the  interior,  ejects  the  rest  of  its  digestive 
products  from  its  dwelling. 
Let  us  examine  one  of  these  "  pears  "  when  the  inmate 
is  already  partly  grown.  Sooner  or  later  we  shall  see 
a  spot  of  moisture  appear  at  some  point  on  the  surface  ; 
the  wall  softens,  becomes  thinner,  and  then,  through  the 
softened  shell,  a  jet  of  dark  green  excreta  rises  and  falls 
back  upon  itself  in  cockscrew  convolutions.  One 
excrescence  the  more  has  been  formed ;  as  it  dries  it 
becomes  black. 
What  has  occurred  ?  The  larva  has  opened  a 
temporary  breach  in  the  wall  of  its  shell ;  and  through 
this  orifice,  in  which  a  slight  thickness  of  the  outer  glaze 
still  remains,  it  has  expelled  the  excess  of  mortar  which 
it  could  not  employ  within.  This  practice  of  forming 
oubliettes  in  the  shell  of  its  prison  does  not  endanger  the 
THE  SISYPHUS  BEETLE  149 
grub,  as  they  are  immediately  closed,  and  hermetically 
sealed  by  the  base  of  the  jet,  which  is  compressed  as  by 
a  stroke  of  a  trowel.  The  stopper  is  so  quickly  put  in 
place  that  the  contents  remain  moist  in  spite  of  the 
frequent  breaches  made  in  the  shell  of  the  "pear." 
There  is  no  danger  of  an  influx  of  the  dry  outer  air. 
The  Sisyphus  seems  to  be  aware  of  the  peril  which 
later  on,  in  the  dog-days,  will  threaten  its  "pear," 
small  as  it  is,  and  so  near  the  surface  of  the  ground. 
It  is  extremely  precocious.  It  labours  in  April  and  May 
when  the  air  is  mild.  In  the  first  fortnight  of  July,  before 
the  terrible  dog-days  have  arrived,  the  members  of  its 
family  break  their  shells  and  set  forth  in  search  of  the 
heap  of  droppings  which  will  furnish  them  with  food  and 
lodging  during  the  fierce  days  of  summer.  Then  come 
the  short  but  pleasant  days  of  autumn,  the  retreat  under- 
ground and  the  winter  torpor,  the  awakening  of  spring, 
and  finally  the  cycle  is  closed  by  the  festival  of  pellet- 
making. 
One  word  more  as  to  the  fertility  of  the  Sisyphus. 
My  six  couples  under  the  wire-gauze  cover  furnished 
me  with  fifty-seven  inhabited  pellets.  This  gives  an 
average  of  more  than  nine  to  each  couple  ;  a  figure  which 
the  Scarahceus  sacer  is  far  from  attaining.  To  what  should 
we  attribute  this  superior  fertility  ?  I  can  only  see  one 
cause :  the  fact  that  the  male  works  as  valiantly  as  the 
female.  Family  cares  too  great  for  the  strength  of  one 
are  not  too  heavy  when  there  are  two  to  support 
them. 